                                        Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




                                        S PECULATIVE K NOWLEDGE D ISTILLATION : B RIDG -
                                        ING THE T EACHER -S TUDENT G AP T HROUGH I NTER -
                                        LEAVED S AMPLING

                                                 Wenda Xu1∗ Rujun Han2 Zifeng Wang2 Long T. Le2 Dhruv Madeka2                                                                                                                                                                      Lei Li4
                                                 William Yang Wang1 Rishabh Agarwal3 Chen-Yu Lee2 Tomas Pfister2
                                                 1
                                                   UC Santa Barbara 2 Google Cloud AI Research 3 Google DeepMind 4 CMU
arXiv:2410.11325v2 [cs.CL] 3 Mar 2025




                                                                                                                                                                  A BSTRACT
                                                                      Recent advances in knowledge distillation (KD) have enabled smaller student
                                                                      models to approach the performance of larger teacher models. However, popu-
                                                                      lar methods such as supervised KD and on-policy KD, are adversely impacted by
                                                                      the knowledge gaps between teacher-student in practical scenarios. Supervised
                                                                      KD suffers from a distribution mismatch between training with a static dataset
                                                                      and inference over final student-generated outputs. Conversely, on-policy KD,
                                                                      which uses student-generated samples for training, can suffer from low-quality
                                                                      training examples with which teacher models are not familiar, resulting in inac-
                                                                      curate teacher feedback. To address these limitations, we introduce Speculative
                                                                      Knowledge Distillation (SKD), a novel approach that leverages cooperation be-
                                                                      tween student and teacher models to generate high-quality training data on-the-fly
                                                                      while aligning with the student’s inference-time distribution. In SKD, the student
                                                                      proposes tokens, and the teacher replaces poorly ranked ones based on its own
                                                                      distribution, transferring high-quality knowledge adaptively. We evaluate SKD
                                                                      on various text generation tasks, including translation, summarization, math, and
                                                                      instruction following, and show that SKD consistently outperforms existing KD
                                                                      methods across different domains, data sizes, and model initialization strategies.
                                                                      The code and data are released at https://github.com/xu1998hz/skd.

                                                                                                                                              Supervised KD                        On-policy KD                     SKD
                                                              Translation (Am-to-En)                             Summarization                                  GSM8K                             Translation (Am-to-En)                            Summarization                                 GSM8K
                                                              60.0                                                                                                                                                                          35.50
                                                                                                                                 Performance (Accuracy)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Performance (Accuracy)
                                                                                  Performance (ROUGE-L)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Performance (ROUGE-L)




                                                                                                          33.0
                                        Performance (COMET)




                                                                                                                                                                            Performance (COMET)




                                                              59.5                                                                                        35                                      75.0                                      35.25                                            28
                                                              59.0                                        32.5                                            34                                                                                35.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                  74.5                                                                                       26
                                                              58.5                                        32.0                                                                                                                              34.75
                                                                                                                                                          33                                      74.0
                                                              58.0                                                                                                                                                                          34.50                                            24
                                                                                                          31.5                                            32                                      73.5
                                                              57.5                                                                                                                                                                          34.25                                            22
                                                              57.0                                        31.0                                            31                                      73.0                                      34.00
                                                                     Qwen2-0.5B                                    Qwen2-0.5B                                  Qwen2-0.5B                                Gemma-2B                                     Gemma-2B                                    Gemma-2B
                                        Figure 1: SKD outperforms supervised and on-policy KD for our tested tasks: Assamese-to-English trans-
                                        lation, dialogue summarization, and arithmetic reasoning. For teacher models, we employ supervised FT
                                        G EMMA -7B- IT and Q WEN -7B- IT as teacher models (IT means instruction-tuned); for student models, we
                                        use G EMMA -2B and Q WEN -0.5B (either instruction-tuned or supervised FT student models checkpoints de-
                                        pending on the best performance). Supervised KD is trained on ground-truth outputs, while on-policy KD uses
                                        self-generated data. All models use greedy decoding for evaluation.


                                        1                       I NTRODUCTION
                                        Text generation capabilities of large language models (LLMs) have seen continuous improvement,
                                        largely driven by scaling up the number of parameters and the amount of training data (Kaplan
                                           ∗
                                             Work done as a student researcher at Google Cloud AI Research. Correspondence to: Wenda Xu
                                        (wendaxu@cs.ucsb.edu), Rujun Han (rujunh@google.com), Rishabh Agarwal (rishabhagarwal@google.com),
                                        Chen-Yu Lee (chenyulee@google.com)


                                                                                                                                                                            1
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




Figure 2: Overview of Speculative Knowledge Distillation (SKD) on an arithmetic reasoning task. Left:
SKD addresses the limitations of on-policy knowledge distillation (KD) by filtering out low-quality student
samples and replacing them with teacher generated tokens. Right: illustration of how SKD generalizes to both
supervised KD (replacing with all teacher tokens) and on-policy (accepting all student tokens).


et al., 2020; Anil et al., 2023; Dubey et al., 2024; OpenAI et al., 2024). However, the substantial
inference-time costs and memory footprint associated with LLMs present significant challenges for
practical deployment (Agarwal et al., 2024). Therefore, compressing LLMs while maintaining their
performance is crucial for real-time practical applications.
Knowledge Distillation (KD) (Hinton et al., 2015) is a widely used method to compress LLMs by
transferring knowledge from a larger teacher model to a smaller student model. Traditional KD
approaches, such as supervised KD (Sanh et al., 2020) and SeqKD (Kim & Rush, 2016b), rely on
a static dataset of outputs to train the student model. However, this fixed dataset can lead to a dis-
tribution mismatch between the training data and the student’s generated samples at inference time,
hindering the student’s learning. On-policy KD (Agarwal et al., 2024) attempts to address this train-
inference mismatch by training the student on its self-generated samples, with the teacher provides
feedback through its token-level probabilities. However, the student may generate low-quality sam-
ples that are out-of-distribution (OOD) for the teacher, especially early in the training, leading to
inaccurate teacher feedback. Additionally, the performance of on-policy is highly sensitive to the
student’s initialization, as illustrated in Figure 4.
In this work, we introduce Speculative Knowledge Distillation (SKD) that uses interleaved sam-
pling between teacher and student to overcome the challenges faced by supervised and on-policy
distillation (Figure 2). Similar to on-policy KD, SKD utilizes student-generated samples to address
the train-inference mismatch. However, to mitigate the issue of low-quality student samples, SKD
filters out intermediate tokens that the teacher is unlikely to produce and instead re-samples them
from the teacher, drawing inspiration from speculative decoding (Leviathan et al., 2023). The de-
sign of SKD is supported by theoretical results in imitation learning (Ross & Bagnell, 2010; Ross
et al., 2011), which suggest that gradually shifting the sample generation from the teacher to the
student is an effective approach. Early in training, when the student model is likely to propose many
out-of-distribution tokens, SKD functions similarly to supervised KD, replacing low-quality tokens
with those from the teacher. As training progresses and the student’s sample quality improves, SKD
behaves more like on-policy KD, accepting many of the student’s proposed tokens.
SKD significantly outperforms supervised and on-policy distillation for LLMs, as shown in Figure 1.
Specifically, when distilling Gemma-7B to Gemma-2B, SKD achieves substantial gains compared
to supervised fine-tuning in low-resource machine translation (41.8%), summarization (230%), and
arithmetic reasoning (160%). Furthermore, training SKD on instruction-following data leads to
impressive results on held-out MATH (Hendrycks et al., 2021) (198%) and GSMplus (Li et al., 2024)
(360%) testing suites. To provide a comprehensive understanding of SKD’s capabilities, we conduct
a systematic evaluation under varying conditions and offer practical guidelines for tokens acceptance


                                                     2
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




criteria from the teacher model, considering factors such as task type and model initialization. Our
key contributions are:
• A novel KD approach that utilizes on-policy student samples likely to be generated by the teacher,
  mitigating the issues of low-quality samples in on-policy KD and dynamically switching between
  supervised and on-policy KD.
• Superior performance across various text generation tasks, including summarization, translation,
  and reasoning tasks, in both task-specific and task-agnostic scenarios.
• Robustness and adaptability across different model initialization, data sizes, and model families.

2 P RELIMINARIES
Language Models. An auto-regressive language model, denoted as M , predicts the probability
distribution of the next token in a sequence. Conditioned on an input sequence X and the generated
prefix y<i = {y1 , y2 , ..., yi−1 } consisting of (i − 1) tokens from a vocabulary V , M calculates
the probability of the i-th token, pyi = M (yi |X, y<i ). The auto-regressive language model M
computes a logit l at the i-th token position. To obtain the probability pyi , we apply the softmax
function with temperature t: pyi = P|Vexp(l
                                          |
                                              i /t)
                                                    . The temperature t introduces randomness into the
                                      j=1 exp(li /t)
text generation process. A higher temperature leads to more diverse sample output, while a lower
temperature results in more focused and deterministic generation. In practical implementations,
the vocabulary V is often truncated using top-k sampling (Radford et al., 2019), which improves
text generation compared to searching over the entire vocabulary distribution. We draw inspiration
from top-k sampling to develop our acceptance criteria for student-generated tokens. We include
background of divergence metrics in the Appendix A.

Speculative Decoding (Leviathan et al., 2022; Chen et al., 2023) accelerates the decoding pro-
cess by employing a smaller draft model to generate token candidates, which are then verified by
larger approximation models. Our interleaved sampling is inspired by speculative decoding but in-
troduces key differences. While speculative decoding ensures that final sampled tokens adhere to the
larger model’s distribution, our method directly assesses the feasibility of student-proposed tokens
within the teacher’s top K tokens (See Sec 3.2).

3   S PECULATIVE K NOWLEDGE D ISTILLATION FOR L ANGUAGE M ODELS
Problem Setup. Given a teacher LM Mt and a student LM Ms , with differing model capacities,
our goal is to train Ms to mimic the behavior of Mt on a specific task T . We assume that Ms has
learnable parameters θs , while Mt ’s parameters θt are fixed. For task T , we have a set of prompts
{x} and corresponding output sequences {y}, which can be generated by either model or provided
as ground truth. To measure the divergence between the token-level distributions of Mt and Ms for
a given input-output pair (x, y), we define the following metric:
                                               Ly
                                         1 X
                   D(Mt ||Ms )(y|x) =           D(MT (.|y<i , x)||Ms (.|y<i , x))                  (1)
                                         Ly i=1
where Ly is the length of the output sequence y, and i indicates decoding steps. Our training
objective is to minimize D(Mt ||Ms )(y|x) such that Ms can effectively imitate Mt on task T .

3.1 BASELINE K NOWLEDGE D ISTILLATION A PPROACHES
Supervised FT is a training method where a student policy is trained on a fixed dataset of input-
output pairs (x, y). The objective is to minimize the negative log-likelihood of the student’s pre-
dictions: LSF T = − log ps (y|x). It’s also a common initialization strategy for more advanced
knowledge distillation techniques like Supervised KD, On-Policy KD, and SKD.
SeqKD (Kim & Rush, 2016a) is a supervised fine-tuning method that trains on sequences gener-
ated by a teacher model using maximum likelihood.
Supervised KD (Sanh et al., 2020) trains a student model to mimic the token-level probability
distribution of a teacher model over a fixed ground truth dataset. This is achieved by minimizing the
distance between the student’s and teacher’s predictions, as defined in Equation 1. The ground truth
labels, denoted by y, are obtained from the fixed dataset.

                                                       3
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




Algorithm 1 Speculative knowledge distillation
Require: Student LLM Ms , Teacher LLM Mt , Prompt dataset {xj }N     j=1 , Decoding length α.
 1: Hyperparameters: Top K for token acceptance, Divergence metric D,
 2: for step := 1 to N do                            ▷ We assume batch size := 1 to simplify the illustration
 3:     for i := 1 to α do
 4:         yi ∼ Ms (.|y<i , xj )                                                ▷ Sample yi from student Ms
 5:         if yi ̸⊂ topK (Mt (.|y<i , xj )) then             ▷ If yi is not within top K token of teacher Mt
 6:             yi ∼ Mt (.|y<i , xj )               ▷ We replace student token to teacher’s resampled token
 7:         end if
 8:     end for
 9:     Apply gradient descent to minimize the minibatch loss D(Mt ||Ms )(y|x) in equation 1
10: end for



On-Policy KD (Agarwal et al., 2024) addresses the training-inference mismatch in student mod-
els by sampling target tokens directly from the student’s own output. This approach calculates both
the teacher and student’s token probabilities and employs Equation 1 to train the student model on
its self-generated data.
ImitKD (Lin et al., 2020) is a hybrid approach that can be viewed as naively combining super-
vised and on-policy KD. During training, it randomly selects samples from either the ground truth
dataset or the student model’s own output with equal probability. This mixed dataset is then used to
train the student model, optimizing the distance metric defined in Equation 1.

3.2   S PECULATIVE K NOWLEDGE D ISTILLATION

Speculative knowledge distillation (SKD) draws two important inspirations from imitation learn-
ing (Ross et al., 2011; Ross & Bagnell, 2010): 1) Directly taking samples from a fixed dataset or
sampling from teacher can cause the state distribution to be unrealistically good. As a result, student
model never learns to correct previous mistakes, leading to poor performance at test time. 2) Di-
rectly drawing samples from student can result in low quality samples that can be out-of-distribution
for the teacher, resulting in inaccurate feedback when assigning logits to the student. SKD addresses
above limitations by using major components from speculative sampling (Leviathan et al., 2023):
1) student model proposes on-policy sample candidate, and 2) the teacher model evaluates these
proposed samples concurrently and accepts only those that it deems likely to generate. After specu-
lative sampling, SKD calculates teacher and student’s token probabilities and employ equation 1 to
train the student model (L9 in Algorithm 1).
Interleaved On-Policy Sampling Given a prompt x, student model Ms will generate a sequence
of tokens, (yi , ..., yi+γ ), following its own distribution Ms (.|y<i , x) (L4 in Algorithm 1). The
teacher model Mt will evaluate this sequence, accepting or rejecting each token based on pre-defined
criteria, which resembles speculative decoding (Leviathan et al., 2023). If a token yi is rejected, the
subsequent tokens (yi+1 , ...) will be discarded, and yi will be resampled from Mt ’s distribution
Mt (.|y<i , x) (L5-7 in Algorithm 1). The student model will then continue to generate tokens on-
policy based on Ms (.|y<i , x, yi ) for the remaining γ tokens. This sample generation process is
particularly advantageous for auto-regressive models, where early errors can propagate and affect
future predictions (Ross & Bagnell, 2010). By focusing on on-policy samples that are likely to be
generated by the teacher model, we can effectively utilize limited student capacity to mimic teacher.
Token Acceptance Criteria Using the default acceptance criteria in speculative decoding corre-
sponds to sampling from teacher’s distribution, which would degenerate to supervised KD. Instead,
we are interested in generating student samples that are likely under the teacher. To do so, we draw
inspiration from top-k sampling (Radford et al., 2019) that draws samples using only the k highest
probability tokens from the entire vocabulary V at each generation step. Following this intuition,
we define our acceptance criteria based whether the student token yi falls into the top K tokens of
teacher’s distribution Mt (.|y<i , x). Similar to speculative decoding, the teacher Mt can evaluate
sequence (yi , ..., yi+γ ) proposed by student in parallel and return to student with the token position
that discarded. We replace the discarded student token by re-sampling a token from the teacher’s
distribution. Note that in Algorithm 1, we simplify the SKD presentation by setting γ = 1, but in
practice use γ = 5 for efficient implementation.


                                                     4
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




Sample Transition During SKD Training. In the early stages of training, student models often
propose low-quality samples that are frequently rejected by the teacher. This initial behavior resem-
bles supervised KD, where the student is explicitly corrected and guided towards the teacher’s gen-
erated samples. As the student’s training progresses, the quality of its proposed samples improves,
leading to a more on-policy interaction with the teacher. SKD dynamically adjusts the balance be-
tween supervised and on-policy KD based on the distribution gap between the teacher and student
models. This adaptive approach allows the student to efficiently learn from the teacher’s samples.
Moreover, SKD is a flexible framework that can degenerate both supervised and on-policy KD as
special cases. In Figure 2, when the student’s samples are consistently rejected or accepted by the
teacher, SKD effectively degenerates to supervised or on-policy KD, respectively. This demonstrates
the generality and versatility of SKD as a unified approach to knowledge distillation.


4     E XPERIMENTAL S ETUP

Student and Teacher Models. We conducted experiments using two model families, G EMMA 1
(Team et al., 2024) and Q WEN 2 (Yang et al., 2024a). We use supervised fine-tuned (SFT) G EMMA -
7B- IT (IT indicates instruction-tuned) and Q WEN -7B- IT as the teacher models, while G EMMA -
2B- IT and Q WEN -0.5B- IT were employed as student models. We further leveraged SFTed student
models to compare KDs under different model initializations.
Hyperparameters. For all fine-tuning process, we use learning rate 1e-5, warmup ratio 0.1 and
0.1 drop out rate for all fine-tuning processes. All SFT checkpoint is trained for three epoches and
we select the checkpoint with the lowest validation loss. Details about SFT training dataset can be
found in Section 4.1. Without parameter search, we fixed acceptance criteria K to be 25 throughout
main experiment and ablation (K=25 is a common choice for top-k sampling (Radford et al., 2019).
See Appendix B for detailed study). We include training details and our hyper-parameter choice of
baselines and SKD in the Appendix Section D.
Baselines. We conduct SKD over widely accepted KD approaches listed in Section 3.1: Super-
vised Fine-tuning, Supervised KD, on-policy KD and ImitKD. We compared SeqKD to supervised
fine-tuning (SFT) using ground truth data and found that SFT consistently outperformed SeqKD.
Therefore, we did not include SeqKD results.

4.1   DATASET AND E VALUATION .

We evaluated SKD and baseline methods across three generation tasks: low-resource translation,
dialogue summarization, and arithmetic reasoning. Task-specific KD often operates with training
data around 1K samples (Quteineh et al., 2022). Thus, we randomly draw 1K samples from our task
data, and further test low-data regime with 100 samples. Additionally, we performed experiments
using 1K and 10K on a task-agnostic instruction-following task in the math domain. It’s important to
note that different baseline KD methods have access to different training data. Supervised KD, SFT,
and ImitKD have access to both (x, y) pairs from the ground truth dataset, while on-policy and SKD
only see the prompt x and self-generate the target label during training. Since our assumption that
the teacher model should be an expert in a specific task, we used full training data for each task to
supervise the FT teacher model. For SFTed student initialization, we supervise the FT student model
with our constructed training set x, y (around 1000 instances). For reproducibility, all baselines and
SKD use greedy decoding for evaluation. We include all results of supervised FT teacher model,
supervised FT student model and instruction tuned student models in the Appendix E.
Low Resource Translation. We utilize the Flores-200 (Team, 2022) Assamese-to-English trans-
lation dataset for low-resource translation. Due to the scarcity of Assamese-to-English training data,
we employ the Flores-200 development set (997 instances) as our training set. Additionally, we split
the Flores-200 testing set (1012 instances) into a development set (500 instances) and a testing set
(512 instances) for evaluation. We use SOTA learned metric COMET (Rei et al., 2022) to evaluate
the translation quality. We use 997 instances from our constructed training set to SFTed both teacher
and student models.
Dialogue Summarization. For dialogue summarization, we utilize the DialogSum dataset (Chen
et al., 2021). We randomly sample 1K instances from the DialogSum training set to create our
input-output pairs (x, y). For evaluation, we employ the dataset’s development set (500 instances)


                                                  5
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




and test set (1500 instances). To assess summary quality, we use the ROUGE-L metric (Lin, 2004).
We Supervised FT our teacher models on 10K instances from the DialogSum training set, and our
student models on the 1K instances from our constructed training set.
Arithmetic Reasoning. For arithmetic reasoning, we utilize the GSM8K dataset (Cobbe et al.,
2021). We split the GSM8K training set into a development set (473 instances) and a training set (7K
instances). We randomly sample 1K instances from the training set to create our input-output pairs
(x, y). For evaluation, we employ the development set and the GSM8K test set (1319 instances).
We assess the quality of the generated output using answer accuracy. We Supervised FT our teacher
models on 7K instances from the GSM8K training set, and our student models on the 1K instances
from our constructed training set.
Math Instruction Following. For math instruction following, we utilize the UltraInteract dataset
(Yuan et al., 2024). We randomly sample 11K instances from the UltraInteract training set, dividing
them into a training set (10K instances) and a development set (1K instances). For evaluation, we
employ the GSMplus (Li et al., 2024), Math (Hendrycks et al., 2021), Asdiv (Miao et al., 2020) and
SVAMP (Patel et al., 2021) test sets as held-out sets. We Supervised FT our teacher models on 10K
instances from the UltraInteract training set, and our student models on the 1K instances from our
constructed training set. We also tested the setting with 10K training instances for student model.
We explored two types of knowledge distillation: task-specific (Quteineh et al., 2022) and task-
agnostic (Agarwal et al., 2024). In task-specific distillation, training and inference data share the
same format, and the task is known during training. In task-agnostic distillation, only the domain is
known, while the specific task varies during deployment. We categorized distillation of translation,
dialogue summarization, and arithmetic reasoning as task-specific and distillation of math instruc-
tion following as task-agnostic. For both math instruction following and arithmetic reasoning, we
use chain-of-thought (Wei et al., 2023) prompts to generate answer. All prompt formats can be found
in Appendix F. Details about parsing and evaluation for all tasks can be found in the Appendix G.

5     R ESULTS

We validate SKD’s effectiveness through comprehensive studies, including task-specific (Section
5.1) and task-agnostic distillation (Section 5.2), different model initializations (Section 5.3), low-
data regimes (Section 5.4), and an ablation study on two-staged training (supervised KD followed
by on-policy KD) (Section 5.5).

Table 1: SKD outperforms baseline KDs at in-domain tasks: low resource Assamese-to-English translation,
dialogue summarization, arithmetic reasoning. We use G EMMA -2 B and Q WEN -0.5B instruction tuned model
(w/o SFT) as students and SFTed G EMMA -7B- IT and Q WEN 2-7B- IT as teachers. K=25 for SKD. We con-
ducted a permutation significance test for SKD against all baselines for translation and summarization. SKD
outperforms all baselines (p<0.05) significantly except for SKD vs ImitKD at Gemma-7B to Gemma-2B-IT
on summarization and SKD vs supervised KD/SFT at Qwen-7B to Qwen-0.5B-it on translation.
                       Supervised FT G EMMA -7B to G EMMA -2B   Supervised FT Q WEN 2-7B to Q WEN 2-0.5B
                       Translation   Summarization   GSM8K      Translation   Summarization   GSM8K
       Baselines        COMET         ROUGE-L         Acc        COMET         ROUGE-L         Acc
       SFT                72.5           31.7         18.7         57.6           29.2         31.8
       Supervised KD      73.3           34.1         22.5         57.5           31.3         35.0
       On-policy KD       36.1           34.1         25.3         53.0           31.2         33.9
       ImitKD             74.8           34.9         26.2         55.9           30.9         33.2
       SKD                75.3           35.0         29.1         57.1           31.7         36.6


5.1   TASK - SPECIFIC DISTILLATION

In this section, we investigated task-specific distillation, where the training and inference prompt-
response sets share the same format, and the task is known during training. We study two model
families, supervised FT G EMMA -7B to instruction tuned G EMMA -2B (G EMMA -2B- IT) and super-
vised FT Q WEN 2-7B to instruction tuned Q WEN 2-0.5B (Q WEN 2-0.5B- IT). As shown in Table
1, the performance of supervised KD and on-policy KD is highly task-dependent, likely due to the
model’s initial familiarity with each task (see Sec 5.3 for details). SKD, trained on G EMMA -2B- IT,
consistently outperformed all baseline KD approaches across three in-domain text generation tasks.


                                                      6
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




When initialized with Q WEN 2-0.5B- IT, SKD outperformed all baselines on summarization and
GSM8k. We found that on-policy KD consistently underperformed supervised KD and SKD for
translation and summarization. This is primarily attributed to the low-quality samples generated by
the student model during training. Although ImitKD (partially on-policy) can achieve competitive
performance with a stronger student like G EMMA -2B due to its mixed data strategy, it falls behind
SKD when using the Q WEN -0.5B student due to the lower quality of on-policy samples (See exam-
ple in Sec 5.3). Our results demonstrate SKD’s superiority in five out of six test settings across two
model families, highlighting its optimized performance for task-specific distillation.

                                                                                   Supervised KD          On-policy KD          SKD
                                Math              GSM_plus             SVAMP                 ASDiv                   Math               GSM_plus           SVAMP                 ASDiv
                         10
Performance (Accuracy)




                                           16                   46                   58                      10                                     50                  67.5
                         9                                                                                                       18                                     65.0
                                           14                   44                   56                                                             48
                                                                                                             5
                         8                                                           54                                                                                 62.5
                                           12                   42                                                               16                 46
                         7                                                           52                      0                                                          60.0
                              1k prompts         1k prompts          1k prompts            1k prompts             10k prompts         10k prompts        10k prompts           10k prompts
                                                                           Supervised KD                On-policy KD              SKD
                                  Training with 1k prompts                           Training with 1k prompts                              Training with 10k prompts
                                            SVAMP                                         Geometry Probability                                       SVAMP


                                                                               Inter-Alg                          Number Theory
                              ASDiv               0.2
                                                              GSM_plus                                                                  ASDiv              0.2          GSM_plus
                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                   0.4                                                                                                      0.2
                                                                                                        0.00                                                  0.4
                                                     0.6                                                                                                       0.6
                                                                                                          0.50
                                                      0.8                         Precalculus              0.75 Algebra                                          0.8
                                                        1.0                                                 1.00                                                  1.0


                                                Math                                               Pre-alg                                               Math
Figure 3: SKD outperforms baseline KDs at four held-out testing sets (Math, GSMplus , SVAMP and ASDiv).
We consider two data size setting, 1k and 10k respectively and report testing accuracy in the first row. In the
second row, we calculate the performance gain of SKD over SFT and report the relative performance gains of
baselines compared to SKD. As SKD outperforms all baselines in most cases, these values typically range from
0 to 1. In some instances, supervised KD may be outperformed by SFT, resulting in negative values. In the
middle figure at the second row, we show that SKD outperforms all baselines under 7 math concepts at math
testing set. SKD is performed under K=25.
5.2                           TASK - AGNOSTIC DISTILLATION

To explore task-agnostic instruction following, where the exact nature of the task is unknown during
training and can vary during deployment, we trained and evaluated SKD and baselines on a math
domain instruction following task. Our training set included diverse math instruction following data,
such as MathQA (Amini et al., 2019), math reasoning (Mishra et al., 2022), and tabular processing
(Lu et al., 2023). We tested each KD approach’s performance on four held-out testing sets, ranging
from simple math word problems (ASDiv and SVAMP) to grade-level math problems (GSMplus )
and competitive math problems (Math).
As illustrated in Figure 3, SKD initialized with G EMMA -2B- IT consistently outperformed super-
vised KD and on-policy KD across these four held-out sets when trained on 1k prompts. We also
calculated the performance gain of SKD over SFT and reported baseline performance gains rela-
tive to SKD. Results showed that under 1k prompts, supervised KD and on-policy could approach
close performance on simple tasks like SVAMP and ASDiv but still had a 20-40% performance gap
compared to SKD (Second row on the left of Figure 3). The middle figure demonstrates SKD’s
superiority over baselines on the Math task under 7 different concepts. Since the training set was
task-agnostic instruction following data, it could be trained on a larger scale in practical scenarios.
On the right side of Figure 3, we show that SKD can outperform or match all baseline methods
with 10k prompts. Our results demonstrate SKD’s generalization capability under task-agnostic
distillation. Detailed table result can also be found at Appendix E.

5.3                           D IFFERENT MODEL INITIALIZATION

In this section, we explore how different student model initialization impact the effectiveness of
various KD approaches. As shown in Figure 4, on-policy KD initialized with an instruction-tuned


                                                                                                      7
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




student model can surprisingly degrade performance over time. This raises the question of whether a
teacher’s token-wise probability distribution always provides beneficial guidance. Our findings sug-
gest that if the initial student sample quality is insufficient, the student model may become trapped
in a sub-optimal state, unable to effectively learn from the teacher’s supervision. On-policy KD’s
low quality sample can be found in Sec 5.3 and Appendix H.
       An example of on-policy’s training sample vs SKD (Q WEN 2-0.5B- IT)
      Prompt: Translate Assamese sentence into English. Assamese: [Assamese Texts]. English:

      Reference: It was to last for the next 40 years and would be fought for real, by proxy armies, on battlefields from Africa
      to Asia, in Afghanistan, Cuba and many other places.

      On-policy (COMET: 36): This has been a long war, and has been fought in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past,
      in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past......

      SKD (COMET: 72): This has been going on for 40 years and is still ongoing, with the possibility of war, a civil war,
      Afghans in the Balkans, Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia, and possibly even the United States.


Table 2: SKD outperforms all baseline KDs with SFTed student initialization of instruction following model
and domain-specific fine-tuned model across three text generation tasks. We use supervised SFTed G EMMA -
7B- IT and Q WEN 2-7B- IT model as teachers and supervised SFT G EMMA -2B- IT and Q WEN 2-0.5B- IT as
students. SKD is performed under K=25. We conducted a permutation significance test for SKD against all
baselines for translation and summarization. SKD outperforms all baselines (p<0.05) significantly.
                                  KD initiates with SFTed Gemma-2B                                         KD initiates with SFTed Qwen-0.5B
                               Translation       Summarization                            GSM8K         Translation      Summarization                          GSM8K
         Baselines               COMET              ROUGE-L                                   Acc         COMET              ROUGE-L                              Acc
         SFT                        72.5               31.7                                   18.7           57.6                           29.2                  31.8
         Supervised KD              73.5               34.4                                   22.0           59.3                           32.3                  31.9
         On-policy KD               74.6               34.8                                   28.8           58.3                           32.1                  32.2
         ImitKD                     74.6               34.4                                   26.2           59.9                           32.2                  31.8
         SKD                        75.0               35.4                                   29.2           60.6                           33.1                  33.4


As shown in Table 2, SKD with SFT-
initialized students consistently outper-
forms all baselines across both model                                                                Supervised KD       On-policy KD                         SKD (K=25)
families. While on-policy KD can nar-                                                 Translation (Am-to-En) from IT                               Translation (Am-to-En) from SFT
row the gap with SKD through a two-                                                  80         Gemma-7B (Teacher)
                                                               Performance (COMET)




                                                                                                                             Performance (COMET)




                                                                                                                                                   75
stage training process (supervised fine-                                             70
tuning + KD) for G EMMA -2B students, it                                             60                                                            74
lags behind SKD for smaller models like                                              50         Instruction tuned Gemma-2B                         73
Q WEN -0.5B. Additionally, in Section                                                40                                                                            SFTed Gemma-2B
5.4 and Appendix Section I, we demon-
                                                                                          0 250 500 750 1000 1225                                       0 250 500 750 1000 1225
strate that SFT can lead to over-fitting in                                                     Training steps                                              Training steps
student models under low-data regimes,
resulting in sub-optimal performance in
post-training KDs. Furthermore, de-                               Figure 4: Comparison between SKD and baseline KD meth-
spite some advantages over supervised                             ods with different model initializations. We find that on-policy
and on-policy KD with IT-initialized stu-                         methods struggles when the student model starts with a poor
dent models, ImitKD does not exhibit                              initialization, leading to performance degradation and becom-
clear benefits with higher quality initial-                       ing stuck at a low level throughout training. On-policy KD re-
ized student models. This indicates that                          quires student model to have a good initialization. In contrast,
                                                                  SKD outperforms supervised and on-policy KD under both IT
SKD’s token-level mixing of teacher and
                                                                  and supervised FT Gemma-2B initialization. On-policy KD’s
student model tokens can achieve more                             low quality sample can be found in Appendix H. SKD is per-
optimal performance than sequence-level                           formed under K=25.
mixing.

5.4      L OW DATA REGIME

We further investigated SKD under an extremely low data setting with 100 data points per task (10%
of the training data). As shown in Table 3, SKD outperformed supervised KD and on-policy KD
for all three tasks when initialized with IT and SFTed G EMMA -2B, demonstrating SKD’s superior


                                                                                          8
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




Table 3: SKD outperforms other KD approaches with IT and SFTed student initialization across three text
generation tasks at 100 data points. We use supervised SFT G EMMA -7B- IT as teacher and instruction tuned
G EMMA -2B and supervised FT G EMMA -2B- IT as students. SKD is performed under K=25.
                                                                                  KD initiates with IT Gemma-2B                                                                   KD initiates with SFTed Gemma-2B
                                                                             Translation              Summarization                              GSM8K                         Translation                              Summarization                   GSM8K
                                 Baselines                                    COMET                                 ROUGE-L                                  Acc                 COMET                                       ROUGE-L                                    Acc
                                 SFT                                             59.8                                         23.0                          8.11                   59.8                                        23.0                                     8.11
                                 Supervised KD                                   65.8                                         31.7                          17.0                   60.9                                        32.0                                     14.4
                                 On-policy KD                                    33.7                                         32.2                          12.1                   63.4                                        32.4                                     16.1
                                 SKD                                             67.0                                         32.3                          18.8                   63.8                                        32.6                                     16.7



performance in this extreme low-data setting. Notably, both supervised KD and SKD exhibited
lower or comparable performance when switching from instruction-tuned to SFTed initialization.
This is attributed to unavoidable overfitting during SFT with only 100 data points. In Appendix
Section I, we illustrate how overfitting at the SFT stage can lead to suboptimal performance in
post-training KDs. This finding suggests that end-to-end SKD, capable of training from any base
model and bypassing the SFT stage, offers a more optimal solution than two-stage on-policy KD
(SFT+KD) in extreme low-data scenarios.
                                                                                                                              Supervised + On-policy KD                           SKD
             Translation (Am-to-En)                                    Summarization                                            GSM8K                         Translation (Am-to-En)                                    Summarization                                         GSM8K
                                                                     35.0                                                                                                                                             35.5
                                                                                                Performance (Accuracy)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Performance (Accuracy)
                                             Performance (ROUGE-L)




                                                                                                                                                                                              Performance (ROUGE-L)
                                                                                                                                                                       75.0
Performance (COMET)




                                                                                                                                                 Performance (COMET)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 On-policy
                      75.0                                                                                               28                                                       On-policy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        28
                                                                     34.5                                                                                                                                             35.0
                      74.5                                                         Supervised                                                                          74.5                                                       On-policy
                                                                                                                         26                                                                                                                                             26
                                                                     34.0          On-policy                                         On-policy
                      74.0                                                                                                                                                                                            34.5        Supervised
                                                                                                                                                                       74.0                                                                                             24
                                                                     33.5                                                24
                      73.5          Supervised                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Supervised
                                                                                                                                     Supervised                                   Supervised                          34.0                                              22
                      73.0                                           33.0                                                22                                            73.5
                             Gemma-2B-IT                                    Gemma-2B-IT                                       Gemma-2B-IT                                  Gemma-2B-SFT                                  Gemma-2B-SFT                                    Gemma-2B-SFT
Figure 5: Ablation study. We conduct an ablation study by training the student model with supervised KD for
the first half and self-generated samples for the second half. Our results demonstrate that this mixed training
strategy can mostly be outperformed by either supervised KD or on-policy KD across three tasks and under two
model initialization. Moreover, it is significantly outperformed by our SKD. We excluded on-policy KD from
the leftmost figure due to its extremely low COMET score.
5.5                          T WO - STAGED TRAINING

Given that SKD transitions from supervised KD-like behavior at the beginning of training to on-
policy KD towards the end, we investigated whether a simple approach of training with supervised
KD for the first half of iterations and self-generated samples for the second half could achieve SKD-
like performance. We conducted an ablation study by training the student model with supervised
KD first, followed by on-policy KD (see Appendix Section J for details). As shown in Figure 5,
SKD significantly outperforms this mixed training strategy. Surprisingly, this heuristic baseline was
often outperformed by either supervised KD or on-policy KD across three tasks and two model
initializations. This is likely due to the data discrepancy encountered during the training process –
naively mixing samples from the teacher and student in two different stages lacks natural confidence
measurement of the tokens; therefore, simply combining supervised and on-policy KD can even
degrade the performance of either approach. This underscores the importance of our adaptive SKD,
which implicitly covers intermediate transitions between two model behaviors.

5.6                          S UMMARY AND A DDITIONAL RESULTS

SKD consistently outperforms baselines in both task-specific and task-agnostic distillation. Un-
like on-policy methods, which are sensitive to student-generated sample quality, SKD maintains its
advantage even with low-quality student model initialization.
In Appendix B, we demonstrated that a wide range of KK values can outperform both supervised
and on-policy KD, and that optimal KK values can be further explored across tasks. Additionally,
Appendix C presents a preliminary experiment on an adaptive KK criterion, highlighting a promising
direction for future research. Furthermore, as discussed in Appendix I, overfitting in SFT can impede
the performance of post-training KD. By adopting an end-to-end approach that bypasses SFT, SKD
offers a significant advantage, particularly in low-data scenarios.


                                                                                                                                                   9
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




Speculative decoding, as described in (Leviathan et al., 2023), is a crucial technique for accelerating
LLM inference. The quality of the draft model used in this process directly influences the speed-up
achieved. As demonstrated in Appendix K, our SKD-trained draft model significantly outperforms
the instruction-tuned base model in terms of token acceptance rate (71% to 85% higher), leading to
a 1.2X speed-up in speculative decoding.
In Appendices L and M, we analyze the rejection rate of student tokens and estimate the theoretical
computational cost of SKD, finding that SKD reduces computation by 50% compared to directly
sampling from the teacher model. Additionally, in Appendix N, SKD demonstrates superior val-
idation convergence over baseline methods, achieving the lowest validation loss across tasks and
initializations. Finally, in Appendix O, we quantify sample OOD issues across different KD ap-
proaches.

6   R ELATED W ORK
Knowledge Distillation (KD) (Hinton et al., 2015) is a widely adopted technique to transfer knowl-
edge from a large, complex teacher model to a smaller, more efficient student model. This approach
has been successfully applied to autoregressive models (Sanh et al., 2020) and language models in
particular (Yang et al., 2024b). There are two primary categories of KD methods: hard label and
soft label. Hard label methods train the student model to mimic the teacher’s input-output pairs,
similar to supervised fine-tuning (Kim & Rush, 2016a; Taori et al., 2023; Chiang et al., 2023; Xu
et al., 2023). Various data augmentation techniques, such as fine-tuning on rationales (Hsieh et al.,
2023) or instruction-following formats (Wang et al., 2023), have been explored within this frame-
work. Soft label methods, on the other hand, compute logits for both the student and teacher models
and minimize a distance metric, such as KL-divergence, between their output distributions (Hinton
et al., 2015; Sanh et al., 2020). Samples for computing logits can be generated by either model or
both. Our proposed SKD falls under the category of soft label KD. To the best of our knowledge,
this work is the first to introduce interleaved teacher-student sampling for soft-label KD.
Soft-label Knowledge Distillation can be broadly categorized into supervised KD and on-policy
KD based on the source of training data. In supervised KD (Sanh et al., 2020), the training data is
fixed, leading to a discrepancy between training and inference time for the student model (Agarwal
et al., 2024). MiniLLM (Gu et al., 2024), for instance, frames this as a reinforcement learning
problem, optimizing reverse KL divergence over the fixed dataset. Lin et al. (2020). explored
different distance metrics, including JSD and total variation distance. On the other hand, on-policy
KD, pioneered by ImitKD (Lin et al., 2020), leverages samples generated by the student model
itself. This approach addresses the training-inference mismatch by directly sampling target tokens
from the student’s own output. Inspired by on-policy imitating learning (Ross et al., 2011), Agarwal
et al. (2024) introduced on-policy KD for language models, calculating both teacher and student
token probabilities to train the student on its self-generated data. DistillM (Ko et al., 2024) further
enhanced this by incorporating a mix of on-policy samples and ground truth. As discussed in §3.2,
both supervised KD and on-policy KD are special cases of SKD. SKD outperforms both baselines
and surpasses the performance from mixing ground-truth and on-policy samples.
Speculative Decoding (Leviathan et al., 2022; Chen et al., 2023) inspired our interleaved sampling
approach in SKD. However, instead of sampling from teacher’s distribution, SKD assesses the feasi-
bility of student-proposed tokens within the teacher’s top K tokens. Interleaved sampling allows us
to obtain high quality on-policy samples. Zhou et al. (2024); Liu et al. (2024) enhanced speculative
decoding alignment with various KD methods. Building on these, we benchmarked SKD’s speedup
against KD baselines, finding it superior in both speed and token acceptance.

7   C ONCLUSION
We propose Speculative Knowledge Distillation (SKD), a novel method that addresses the limita-
tions of existing KD approaches. SKD leverages interleaved sampling to mitigate the discrepancy
between training and inference samples and remove low-quality student-generated data. Our ex-
periments consistently show SKD’s superiority in both task-specific and task-agnostic distillations.
SKD is robust to various model families, initialization, and dataset sizes. We also demonstrate its
superiority in token-level mixing over sequence-level mixing. Furthermore, SKD-trained student
models can accelerate speculative decoding, enabling new applications.


                                                  10
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




8   REPRODUCIBILITY STATEMENT
We discussed our model implementation, hyper-parameters, baseline details in Section 4. We in-
clude information about our dataset and evaluation metrics in Section 4.1. We discuss training and
hyper-parameter details in Appendix D. We include examples of our prompt and response for all
tasks in Appendix F. We include additional information about our evaluation metrics in Appendix
G. All data, model and evaluation metrics are open sourced and available for research community.
Upon the camera ready of the paper, we will include a link to a publicly accessible code reposi-
tory, including all implementations about baseline KDs and SKD, running instructions and hyper-
parameter settings. All results reported in this paper can be fully reproduced by the community.

R EFERENCES
Rishabh Agarwal, Nino Vieillard, Yongchao Zhou, Piotr Stanczyk, Sabela Ramos, Matthieu Geist,
  and Olivier Bachem. On-policy distillation of language models: Learning from self-generated
  mistakes, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.13649.
Aida Amini, Saadia Gabriel, Shanchuan Lin, Rik Koncel-Kedziorski, Yejin Choi, and Hannaneh
  Hajishirzi. MathQA: Towards interpretable math word problem solving with operation-based
  formalisms. In Jill Burstein, Christy Doran, and Thamar Solorio (eds.), Proceedings of the 2019
  Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
  Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers), pp. 2357–2367, Minneapolis,
  Minnesota, June 2019. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/N19-1245.
  URL https://aclanthology.org/N19-1245.
Rohan Anil, Andrew M. Dai, Orhan Firat, Melvin Johnson, Dmitry Lepikhin, Alexandre Passos,
  Siamak Shakeri, Emanuel Taropa, Paige Bailey, Zhifeng Chen, Eric Chu, Jonathan H. Clark,
  Laurent El Shafey, Yanping Huang, Kathy Meier-Hellstern, Gaurav Mishra, Erica Moreira, Mark
  Omernick, Kevin Robinson, Sebastian Ruder, Yi Tay, Kefan Xiao, Yuanzhong Xu, Yujing Zhang,
  Gustavo Hernandez Abrego, Junwhan Ahn, Jacob Austin, Paul Barham, Jan Botha, James Brad-
  bury, Siddhartha Brahma, Kevin Brooks, Michele Catasta, Yong Cheng, Colin Cherry, Christo-
  pher A. Choquette-Choo, Aakanksha Chowdhery, Clément Crepy, Shachi Dave, Mostafa De-
  hghani, Sunipa Dev, Jacob Devlin, Mark Dı́az, Nan Du, Ethan Dyer, Vlad Feinberg, Fangxi-
  aoyu Feng, Vlad Fienber, Markus Freitag, Xavier Garcia, Sebastian Gehrmann, Lucas Gonzalez,
  Guy Gur-Ari, Steven Hand, Hadi Hashemi, Le Hou, Joshua Howland, Andrea Hu, Jeffrey Hui,
  Jeremy Hurwitz, Michael Isard, Abe Ittycheriah, Matthew Jagielski, Wenhao Jia, Kathleen Ke-
  nealy, Maxim Krikun, Sneha Kudugunta, Chang Lan, Katherine Lee, Benjamin Lee, Eric Li,
  Music Li, Wei Li, YaGuang Li, Jian Li, Hyeontaek Lim, Hanzhao Lin, Zhongtao Liu, Freder-
  ick Liu, Marcello Maggioni, Aroma Mahendru, Joshua Maynez, Vedant Misra, Maysam Mous-
  salem, Zachary Nado, John Nham, Eric Ni, Andrew Nystrom, Alicia Parrish, Marie Pellat, Mar-
  tin Polacek, Alex Polozov, Reiner Pope, Siyuan Qiao, Emily Reif, Bryan Richter, Parker Riley,
  Alex Castro Ros, Aurko Roy, Brennan Saeta, Rajkumar Samuel, Renee Shelby, Ambrose Slone,
  Daniel Smilkov, David R. So, Daniel Sohn, Simon Tokumine, Dasha Valter, Vijay Vasudevan,
  Kiran Vodrahalli, Xuezhi Wang, Pidong Wang, Zirui Wang, Tao Wang, John Wieting, Yuhuai
  Wu, Kelvin Xu, Yunhan Xu, Linting Xue, Pengcheng Yin, Jiahui Yu, Qiao Zhang, Steven Zheng,
  Ce Zheng, Weikang Zhou, Denny Zhou, Slav Petrov, and Yonghui Wu. Palm 2 technical report,
  2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.10403.
Charlie Chen, Sebastian Borgeaud, Geoffrey Irving, Jean-Baptiste Lespiau, Laurent Sifre, and John
  Jumper. Accelerating large language model decoding with speculative sampling, 2023. URL
  https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.01318.
Yulong Chen, Yang Liu, Liang Chen, and Yue Zhang. DialogSum: A real-life scenario dia-
  logue summarization dataset. In Chengqing Zong, Fei Xia, Wenjie Li, and Roberto Navigli
  (eds.), Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL-IJCNLP 2021, pp. 5062–
  5074, Online, August 2021. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2021.
  findings-acl.449. URL https://aclanthology.org/2021.findings-acl.449.
Wei-Lin Chiang, Zhuohan Li, Zi Lin, Ying Sheng, Zhanghao Wu, Hao Zhang, Lianmin Zheng,
 Siyuan Zhuang, Yonghao Zhuang, Joseph E. Gonzalez, Ion Stoica, and Eric P. Xing. Vicuna: An


                                               11
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




  open-source chatbot impressing gpt-4 with 90%* chatgpt quality, March 2023. URL https:
  //lmsys.org/blog/2023-03-30-vicuna/.
Karl Cobbe, Vineet Kosaraju, Mohammad Bavarian, Mark Chen, Heewoo Jun, Lukasz Kaiser,
  Matthias Plappert, Jerry Tworek, Jacob Hilton, Reiichiro Nakano, Christopher Hesse, and John
  Schulman. Training verifiers to solve math word problems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2110.14168,
  2021.
Abhimanyu Dubey, Abhinav Jauhri, Abhinav Pandey, Abhishek Kadian, Ahmad Al-Dahle, Aiesha
  Letman, Akhil Mathur, Alan Schelten, Amy Yang, Angela Fan, Anirudh Goyal, Anthony
  Hartshorn, Aobo Yang, Archi Mitra, Archie Sravankumar, Artem Korenev, Arthur Hinsvark,
  Arun Rao, Aston Zhang, Aurelien Rodriguez, Austen Gregerson, Ava Spataru, Baptiste Roziere,
  Bethany Biron, Binh Tang, Bobbie Chern, Charlotte Caucheteux, Chaya Nayak, Chloe Bi, Chris
  Marra, Chris McConnell, Christian Keller, Christophe Touret, Chunyang Wu, Corinne Wong,
  Cristian Canton Ferrer, Cyrus Nikolaidis, Damien Allonsius, Daniel Song, Danielle Pintz, Danny
  Livshits, David Esiobu, Dhruv Choudhary, Dhruv Mahajan, Diego Garcia-Olano, Diego Perino,
  Dieuwke Hupkes, Egor Lakomkin, Ehab AlBadawy, Elina Lobanova, Emily Dinan, Eric Michael
  Smith, Filip Radenovic, Frank Zhang, Gabriel Synnaeve, Gabrielle Lee, Georgia Lewis Ander-
  son, Graeme Nail, Gregoire Mialon, Guan Pang, Guillem Cucurell, Hailey Nguyen, Hannah
  Korevaar, Hu Xu, Hugo Touvron, Iliyan Zarov, Imanol Arrieta Ibarra, Isabel Kloumann, Ishan
  Misra, Ivan Evtimov, Jade Copet, Jaewon Lee, Jan Geffert, Jana Vranes, Jason Park, Jay Ma-
  hadeokar, Jeet Shah, Jelmer van der Linde, Jennifer Billock, Jenny Hong, Jenya Lee, Jeremy
  Fu, Jianfeng Chi, Jianyu Huang, Jiawen Liu, Jie Wang, Jiecao Yu, Joanna Bitton, Joe Spisak,
  Jongsoo Park, Joseph Rocca, Joshua Johnstun, Joshua Saxe, Junteng Jia, Kalyan Vasuden Al-
  wala, Kartikeya Upasani, Kate Plawiak, Ke Li, Kenneth Heafield, Kevin Stone, Khalid El-Arini,
  Krithika Iyer, Kshitiz Malik, Kuenley Chiu, Kunal Bhalla, Lauren Rantala-Yeary, Laurens van der
  Maaten, Lawrence Chen, Liang Tan, Liz Jenkins, Louis Martin, Lovish Madaan, Lubo Malo,
  Lukas Blecher, Lukas Landzaat, Luke de Oliveira, Madeline Muzzi, Mahesh Pasupuleti, Man-
  nat Singh, Manohar Paluri, Marcin Kardas, Mathew Oldham, Mathieu Rita, Maya Pavlova,
  Melanie Kambadur, Mike Lewis, Min Si, Mitesh Kumar Singh, Mona Hassan, Naman Goyal,
  Narjes Torabi, Nikolay Bashlykov, Nikolay Bogoychev, Niladri Chatterji, Olivier Duchenne, Onur
  Çelebi, Patrick Alrassy, Pengchuan Zhang, Pengwei Li, Petar Vasic, Peter Weng, Prajjwal Bhar-
  gava, Pratik Dubal, Praveen Krishnan, Punit Singh Koura, Puxin Xu, Qing He, Qingxiao Dong,
  Ragavan Srinivasan, Raj Ganapathy, Ramon Calderer, Ricardo Silveira Cabral, Robert Stojnic,
  Roberta Raileanu, Rohit Girdhar, Rohit Patel, Romain Sauvestre, Ronnie Polidoro, Roshan Sum-
  baly, Ross Taylor, Ruan Silva, Rui Hou, Rui Wang, Saghar Hosseini, Sahana Chennabasappa,
  Sanjay Singh, Sean Bell, Seohyun Sonia Kim, Sergey Edunov, Shaoliang Nie, Sharan Narang,
  Sharath Raparthy, Sheng Shen, Shengye Wan, Shruti Bhosale, Shun Zhang, Simon Vandenhende,
  Soumya Batra, Spencer Whitman, Sten Sootla, Stephane Collot, Suchin Gururangan, Sydney
  Borodinsky, Tamar Herman, Tara Fowler, Tarek Sheasha, Thomas Georgiou, Thomas Scialom,
  Tobias Speckbacher, Todor Mihaylov, Tong Xiao, Ujjwal Karn, Vedanuj Goswami, Vibhor Gupta,
  Vignesh Ramanathan, Viktor Kerkez, Vincent Gonguet, Virginie Do, Vish Vogeti, Vladan Petro-
  vic, Weiwei Chu, Wenhan Xiong, Wenyin Fu, Whitney Meers, Xavier Martinet, Xiaodong Wang,
  Xiaoqing Ellen Tan, Xinfeng Xie, Xuchao Jia, Xuewei Wang, Yaelle Goldschlag, Yashesh Gaur,
  Yasmine Babaei, Yi Wen, Yiwen Song, Yuchen Zhang, Yue Li, Yuning Mao, Zacharie Delpierre
  Coudert, Zheng Yan, Zhengxing Chen, Zoe Papakipos, Aaditya Singh, Aaron Grattafiori, Abha
  Jain, Adam Kelsey, Adam Shajnfeld, Adithya Gangidi, Adolfo Victoria, Ahuva Goldstand, Ajay
  Menon, Ajay Sharma, Alex Boesenberg, Alex Vaughan, Alexei Baevski, Allie Feinstein, Amanda
  Kallet, Amit Sangani, Anam Yunus, Andrei Lupu, Andres Alvarado, Andrew Caples, Andrew
  Gu, Andrew Ho, Andrew Poulton, Andrew Ryan, Ankit Ramchandani, Annie Franco, Aparajita
  Saraf, Arkabandhu Chowdhury, Ashley Gabriel, Ashwin Bharambe, Assaf Eisenman, Azadeh
  Yazdan, Beau James, Ben Maurer, Benjamin Leonhardi, Bernie Huang, Beth Loyd, Beto De
  Paola, Bhargavi Paranjape, Bing Liu, Bo Wu, Boyu Ni, Braden Hancock, Bram Wasti, Bran-
  don Spence, Brani Stojkovic, Brian Gamido, Britt Montalvo, Carl Parker, Carly Burton, Catalina
  Mejia, Changhan Wang, Changkyu Kim, Chao Zhou, Chester Hu, Ching-Hsiang Chu, Chris Cai,
  Chris Tindal, Christoph Feichtenhofer, Damon Civin, Dana Beaty, Daniel Kreymer, Daniel Li,
  Danny Wyatt, David Adkins, David Xu, Davide Testuggine, Delia David, Devi Parikh, Diana
  Liskovich, Didem Foss, Dingkang Wang, Duc Le, Dustin Holland, Edward Dowling, Eissa Jamil,
  Elaine Montgomery, Eleonora Presani, Emily Hahn, Emily Wood, Erik Brinkman, Esteban Ar-
  caute, Evan Dunbar, Evan Smothers, Fei Sun, Felix Kreuk, Feng Tian, Firat Ozgenel, Francesco


                                               12
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




  Caggioni, Francisco Guzmán, Frank Kanayet, Frank Seide, Gabriela Medina Florez, Gabriella
  Schwarz, Gada Badeer, Georgia Swee, Gil Halpern, Govind Thattai, Grant Herman, Grigory
  Sizov, Guangyi, Zhang, Guna Lakshminarayanan, Hamid Shojanazeri, Han Zou, Hannah Wang,
  Hanwen Zha, Haroun Habeeb, Harrison Rudolph, Helen Suk, Henry Aspegren, Hunter Gold-
  man, Ibrahim Damlaj, Igor Molybog, Igor Tufanov, Irina-Elena Veliche, Itai Gat, Jake Weissman,
  James Geboski, James Kohli, Japhet Asher, Jean-Baptiste Gaya, Jeff Marcus, Jeff Tang, Jennifer
  Chan, Jenny Zhen, Jeremy Reizenstein, Jeremy Teboul, Jessica Zhong, Jian Jin, Jingyi Yang, Joe
  Cummings, Jon Carvill, Jon Shepard, Jonathan McPhie, Jonathan Torres, Josh Ginsburg, Junjie
  Wang, Kai Wu, Kam Hou U, Karan Saxena, Karthik Prasad, Kartikay Khandelwal, Katayoun
  Zand, Kathy Matosich, Kaushik Veeraraghavan, Kelly Michelena, Keqian Li, Kun Huang, Kunal
  Chawla, Kushal Lakhotia, Kyle Huang, Lailin Chen, Lakshya Garg, Lavender A, Leandro Silva,
  Lee Bell, Lei Zhang, Liangpeng Guo, Licheng Yu, Liron Moshkovich, Luca Wehrstedt, Madian
  Khabsa, Manav Avalani, Manish Bhatt, Maria Tsimpoukelli, Martynas Mankus, Matan Hasson,
  Matthew Lennie, Matthias Reso, Maxim Groshev, Maxim Naumov, Maya Lathi, Meghan Ke-
  neally, Michael L. Seltzer, Michal Valko, Michelle Restrepo, Mihir Patel, Mik Vyatskov, Mikayel
  Samvelyan, Mike Clark, Mike Macey, Mike Wang, Miquel Jubert Hermoso, Mo Metanat, Mo-
  hammad Rastegari, Munish Bansal, Nandhini Santhanam, Natascha Parks, Natasha White, Navy-
  ata Bawa, Nayan Singhal, Nick Egebo, Nicolas Usunier, Nikolay Pavlovich Laptev, Ning Dong,
  Ning Zhang, Norman Cheng, Oleg Chernoguz, Olivia Hart, Omkar Salpekar, Ozlem Kalinli,
  Parkin Kent, Parth Parekh, Paul Saab, Pavan Balaji, Pedro Rittner, Philip Bontrager, Pierre Roux,
  Piotr Dollar, Polina Zvyagina, Prashant Ratanchandani, Pritish Yuvraj, Qian Liang, Rachad Alao,
  Rachel Rodriguez, Rafi Ayub, Raghotham Murthy, Raghu Nayani, Rahul Mitra, Raymond Li,
  Rebekkah Hogan, Robin Battey, Rocky Wang, Rohan Maheswari, Russ Howes, Ruty Rinott,
  Sai Jayesh Bondu, Samyak Datta, Sara Chugh, Sara Hunt, Sargun Dhillon, Sasha Sidorov, Sa-
  tadru Pan, Saurabh Verma, Seiji Yamamoto, Sharadh Ramaswamy, Shaun Lindsay, Shaun Lind-
  say, Sheng Feng, Shenghao Lin, Shengxin Cindy Zha, Shiva Shankar, Shuqiang Zhang, Shuqiang
  Zhang, Sinong Wang, Sneha Agarwal, Soji Sajuyigbe, Soumith Chintala, Stephanie Max, Stephen
  Chen, Steve Kehoe, Steve Satterfield, Sudarshan Govindaprasad, Sumit Gupta, Sungmin Cho,
  Sunny Virk, Suraj Subramanian, Sy Choudhury, Sydney Goldman, Tal Remez, Tamar Glaser,
  Tamara Best, Thilo Kohler, Thomas Robinson, Tianhe Li, Tianjun Zhang, Tim Matthews, Tim-
  othy Chou, Tzook Shaked, Varun Vontimitta, Victoria Ajayi, Victoria Montanez, Vijai Mohan,
  Vinay Satish Kumar, Vishal Mangla, Vı́tor Albiero, Vlad Ionescu, Vlad Poenaru, Vlad Tiberiu
  Mihailescu, Vladimir Ivanov, Wei Li, Wenchen Wang, Wenwen Jiang, Wes Bouaziz, Will Con-
  stable, Xiaocheng Tang, Xiaofang Wang, Xiaojian Wu, Xiaolan Wang, Xide Xia, Xilun Wu,
  Xinbo Gao, Yanjun Chen, Ye Hu, Ye Jia, Ye Qi, Yenda Li, Yilin Zhang, Ying Zhang, Yossi Adi,
  Youngjin Nam, Yu, Wang, Yuchen Hao, Yundi Qian, Yuzi He, Zach Rait, Zachary DeVito, Zef
  Rosnbrick, Zhaoduo Wen, Zhenyu Yang, and Zhiwei Zhao. The llama 3 herd of models, 2024.
  URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.21783.
Markus Freitag, Ricardo Rei, Nitika Mathur, Chi-kiu Lo, Craig Stewart, Eleftherios Avramidis,
 Tom Kocmi, George Foster, Alon Lavie, and André F. T. Martins. Results of WMT22 metrics
 shared task: Stop using BLEU – neural metrics are better and more robust. In Philipp Koehn,
 Loı̈c Barrault, Ondřej Bojar, Fethi Bougares, Rajen Chatterjee, Marta R. Costa-jussà, Christian
 Federmann, Mark Fishel, Alexander Fraser, Markus Freitag, Yvette Graham, Roman Grund-
 kiewicz, Paco Guzman, Barry Haddow, Matthias Huck, Antonio Jimeno Yepes, Tom Kocmi,
 André Martins, Makoto Morishita, Christof Monz, Masaaki Nagata, Toshiaki Nakazawa, Mat-
 teo Negri, Aurélie Névéol, Mariana Neves, Martin Popel, Marco Turchi, and Marcos Zampieri
 (eds.), Proceedings of the Seventh Conference on Machine Translation (WMT), pp. 46–68, Abu
 Dhabi, United Arab Emirates (Hybrid), December 2022. Association for Computational Linguis-
 tics. URL https://aclanthology.org/2022.wmt-1.2.
Yuxian Gu, Li Dong, Furu Wei, and Minlie Huang. Minillm: Knowledge distillation of large lan-
  guage models, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.08543.
Dan Hendrycks, Collin Burns, Saurav Kadavath, Akul Arora, Steven Basart, Eric Tang, Dawn Song,
  and Jacob Steinhardt. Measuring mathematical problem solving with the math dataset, 2021.
  URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2103.03874.
Geoffrey Hinton, Oriol Vinyals, and Jeff Dean. Distilling the knowledge in a neural network, 2015.
  URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1503.02531.


                                               13
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




Ari Holtzman, Jan Buys, Li Du, Maxwell Forbes, and Yejin Choi. The curious case of neural text
  degeneration, 2020. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.09751.

Cheng-Yu Hsieh, Chun-Liang Li, Chih-kuan Yeh, Hootan Nakhost, Yasuhisa Fujii, Alex Ratner,
  Ranjay Krishna, Chen-Yu Lee, and Tomas Pfister. Distilling step-by-step! outperforming larger
  language models with less training data and smaller model sizes. In Anna Rogers, Jordan Boyd-
  Graber, and Naoaki Okazaki (eds.), Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
  ACL 2023, pp. 8003–8017, Toronto, Canada, July 2023. Association for Computational Linguis-
  tics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2023.findings-acl.507. URL https://aclanthology.org/2023.
  findings-acl.507.

Jared Kaplan, Sam McCandlish, Tom Henighan, Tom B. Brown, Benjamin Chess, Rewon Child,
   Scott Gray, Alec Radford, Jeffrey Wu, and Dario Amodei. Scaling laws for neural language
   models, 2020. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2001.08361.

Yoon Kim and Alexander M. Rush. Sequence-level knowledge distillation. In Jian Su, Kevin
  Duh, and Xavier Carreras (eds.), Proceedings of the 2016 Conference on Empirical Methods in
  Natural Language Processing, pp. 1317–1327, Austin, Texas, November 2016a. Association for
  Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/D16-1139. URL https://aclanthology.
  org/D16-1139.

Yoon Kim and Alexander M Rush.          Sequence-level knowledge distillation.     arXiv preprint
  arXiv:1606.07947, 2016b.

Jongwoo Ko, Sungnyun Kim, Tianyi Chen, and Se-Young Yun. Distillm: Towards streamlined dis-
  tillation for large language models, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03898.

Yaniv Leviathan, Matan Kalman, and Yossi Matias. Fast inference from transformers via speculative
  decoding, 2022. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.17192.

Yaniv Leviathan, Matan Kalman, and Yossi Matias. Fast inference from transformers via speculative
  decoding. In International Conference on Machine Learning, pp. 19274–19286. PMLR, 2023.

Qintong Li, Leyang Cui, Xueliang Zhao, Lingpeng Kong, and Wei Bi. Gsm-plus: A comprehensive
  benchmark for evaluating the robustness of llms as mathematical problem solvers, 2024. URL
  https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.19255.

Alexander Lin, Jeremy Wohlwend, Howard Chen, and Tao Lei. Autoregressive knowledge dis-
  tillation through imitation learning. In Bonnie Webber, Trevor Cohn, Yulan He, and Yang Liu
  (eds.), Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Process-
  ing (EMNLP), pp. 6121–6133, Online, November 2020. Association for Computational Linguis-
  tics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2020.emnlp-main.494. URL https://aclanthology.org/2020.
  emnlp-main.494.

Chin-Yew Lin. ROUGE: A package for automatic evaluation of summaries. In Text Summarization
  Branches Out, pp. 74–81, Barcelona, Spain, July 2004. Association for Computational Linguis-
  tics. URL https://aclanthology.org/W04-1013.

Xiaoxuan Liu, Lanxiang Hu, Peter Bailis, Alvin Cheung, Zhijie Deng, Ion Stoica, and Hao Zhang.
  Online speculative decoding, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.07177.

Pan Lu, Liang Qiu, Kai-Wei Chang, Ying Nian Wu, Song-Chun Zhu, Tanmay Rajpurohit, Peter
  Clark, and Ashwin Kalyan. Dynamic prompt learning via policy gradient for semi-structured
  mathematical reasoning. In International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2023.

Shen-yun Miao, Chao-Chun Liang, and Keh-Yih Su. A diverse corpus for evaluating and developing
  English math word problem solvers. In Dan Jurafsky, Joyce Chai, Natalie Schluter, and Joel
  Tetreault (eds.), Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
  Linguistics, pp. 975–984, Online, July 2020. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.
  18653/v1/2020.acl-main.92. URL https://aclanthology.org/2020.acl-main.92.


                                               14
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




Swaroop Mishra, Arindam Mitra, Neeraj Varshney, Bhavdeep Sachdeva, Peter Clark, Chitta Baral,
  and Ashwin Kalyan. NumGLUE: A suite of fundamental yet challenging mathematical reason-
  ing tasks. In Smaranda Muresan, Preslav Nakov, and Aline Villavicencio (eds.), Proceedings
  of the 60th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long
  Papers), pp. 3505–3523, Dublin, Ireland, May 2022. Association for Computational Linguis-
  tics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2022.acl-long.246. URL https://aclanthology.org/2022.
  acl-long.246.
OpenAI, Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama Ahmad, Ilge Akkaya, Floren-
  cia Leoni Aleman, Diogo Almeida, Janko Altenschmidt, Sam Altman, Shyamal Anadkat, Red
  Avila, Igor Babuschkin, Suchir Balaji, Valerie Balcom, Paul Baltescu, Haiming Bao, Moham-
  mad Bavarian, Jeff Belgum, Irwan Bello, Jake Berdine, Gabriel Bernadett-Shapiro, Christopher
  Berner, Lenny Bogdonoff, Oleg Boiko, Madelaine Boyd, Anna-Luisa Brakman, Greg Brock-
  man, Tim Brooks, Miles Brundage, Kevin Button, Trevor Cai, Rosie Campbell, Andrew Cann,
  Brittany Carey, Chelsea Carlson, Rory Carmichael, Brooke Chan, Che Chang, Fotis Chantzis,
  Derek Chen, Sully Chen, Ruby Chen, Jason Chen, Mark Chen, Ben Chess, Chester Cho, Casey
  Chu, Hyung Won Chung, Dave Cummings, Jeremiah Currier, Yunxing Dai, Cory Decareaux,
  Thomas Degry, Noah Deutsch, Damien Deville, Arka Dhar, David Dohan, Steve Dowling, Sheila
  Dunning, Adrien Ecoffet, Atty Eleti, Tyna Eloundou, David Farhi, Liam Fedus, Niko Felix,
  Simón Posada Fishman, Juston Forte, Isabella Fulford, Leo Gao, Elie Georges, Christian Gib-
  son, Vik Goel, Tarun Gogineni, Gabriel Goh, Rapha Gontijo-Lopes, Jonathan Gordon, Morgan
  Grafstein, Scott Gray, Ryan Greene, Joshua Gross, Shixiang Shane Gu, Yufei Guo, Chris Hal-
  lacy, Jesse Han, Jeff Harris, Yuchen He, Mike Heaton, Johannes Heidecke, Chris Hesse, Alan
  Hickey, Wade Hickey, Peter Hoeschele, Brandon Houghton, Kenny Hsu, Shengli Hu, Xin Hu,
  Joost Huizinga, Shantanu Jain, Shawn Jain, Joanne Jang, Angela Jiang, Roger Jiang, Haozhun
  Jin, Denny Jin, Shino Jomoto, Billie Jonn, Heewoo Jun, Tomer Kaftan, Łukasz Kaiser, Ali Ka-
  mali, Ingmar Kanitscheider, Nitish Shirish Keskar, Tabarak Khan, Logan Kilpatrick, Jong Wook
  Kim, Christina Kim, Yongjik Kim, Jan Hendrik Kirchner, Jamie Kiros, Matt Knight, Daniel
  Kokotajlo, Łukasz Kondraciuk, Andrew Kondrich, Aris Konstantinidis, Kyle Kosic, Gretchen
  Krueger, Vishal Kuo, Michael Lampe, Ikai Lan, Teddy Lee, Jan Leike, Jade Leung, Daniel
  Levy, Chak Ming Li, Rachel Lim, Molly Lin, Stephanie Lin, Mateusz Litwin, Theresa Lopez,
  Ryan Lowe, Patricia Lue, Anna Makanju, Kim Malfacini, Sam Manning, Todor Markov, Yaniv
  Markovski, Bianca Martin, Katie Mayer, Andrew Mayne, Bob McGrew, Scott Mayer McKinney,
  Christine McLeavey, Paul McMillan, Jake McNeil, David Medina, Aalok Mehta, Jacob Menick,
  Luke Metz, Andrey Mishchenko, Pamela Mishkin, Vinnie Monaco, Evan Morikawa, Daniel
  Mossing, Tong Mu, Mira Murati, Oleg Murk, David Mély, Ashvin Nair, Reiichiro Nakano, Ra-
  jeev Nayak, Arvind Neelakantan, Richard Ngo, Hyeonwoo Noh, Long Ouyang, Cullen O’Keefe,
  Jakub Pachocki, Alex Paino, Joe Palermo, Ashley Pantuliano, Giambattista Parascandolo, Joel
  Parish, Emy Parparita, Alex Passos, Mikhail Pavlov, Andrew Peng, Adam Perelman, Filipe
  de Avila Belbute Peres, Michael Petrov, Henrique Ponde de Oliveira Pinto, Michael, Pokorny,
  Michelle Pokrass, Vitchyr H. Pong, Tolly Powell, Alethea Power, Boris Power, Elizabeth Proehl,
  Raul Puri, Alec Radford, Jack Rae, Aditya Ramesh, Cameron Raymond, Francis Real, Kendra
  Rimbach, Carl Ross, Bob Rotsted, Henri Roussez, Nick Ryder, Mario Saltarelli, Ted Sanders,
  Shibani Santurkar, Girish Sastry, Heather Schmidt, David Schnurr, John Schulman, Daniel Sel-
  sam, Kyla Sheppard, Toki Sherbakov, Jessica Shieh, Sarah Shoker, Pranav Shyam, Szymon Sidor,
  Eric Sigler, Maddie Simens, Jordan Sitkin, Katarina Slama, Ian Sohl, Benjamin Sokolowsky,
  Yang Song, Natalie Staudacher, Felipe Petroski Such, Natalie Summers, Ilya Sutskever, Jie Tang,
  Nikolas Tezak, Madeleine B. Thompson, Phil Tillet, Amin Tootoonchian, Elizabeth Tseng, Pre-
  ston Tuggle, Nick Turley, Jerry Tworek, Juan Felipe Cerón Uribe, Andrea Vallone, Arun Vi-
  jayvergiya, Chelsea Voss, Carroll Wainwright, Justin Jay Wang, Alvin Wang, Ben Wang, Jonathan
  Ward, Jason Wei, CJ Weinmann, Akila Welihinda, Peter Welinder, Jiayi Weng, Lilian Weng,
  Matt Wiethoff, Dave Willner, Clemens Winter, Samuel Wolrich, Hannah Wong, Lauren Work-
  man, Sherwin Wu, Jeff Wu, Michael Wu, Kai Xiao, Tao Xu, Sarah Yoo, Kevin Yu, Qiming
  Yuan, Wojciech Zaremba, Rowan Zellers, Chong Zhang, Marvin Zhang, Shengjia Zhao, Tianhao
  Zheng, Juntang Zhuang, William Zhuk, and Barret Zoph. Gpt-4 technical report, 2024. URL
  https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.08774.
Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu. Bleu: a method for automatic
  evaluation of machine translation. In Pierre Isabelle, Eugene Charniak, and Dekang Lin (eds.),
  Proceedings of the 40th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pp.


                                               15
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




  311–318, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA, July 2002. Association for Computational Linguis-
  tics. doi: 10.3115/1073083.1073135. URL https://aclanthology.org/P02-1040.
Arkil Patel, Satwik Bhattamishra, and Navin Goyal. Are NLP models really able to solve sim-
  ple math word problems? In Kristina Toutanova, Anna Rumshisky, Luke Zettlemoyer, Dilek
  Hakkani-Tur, Iz Beltagy, Steven Bethard, Ryan Cotterell, Tanmoy Chakraborty, and Yichao Zhou
  (eds.), Proceedings of the 2021 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association
  for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, pp. 2080–2094, Online, June
  2021. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2021.naacl-main.168. URL
  https://aclanthology.org/2021.naacl-main.168.
Husam Quteineh, Spyridon Samothrakis, and Richard Sutcliffe. Enhancing task-specific distilla-
  tion in small data regimes through language generation. In Nicoletta Calzolari, Chu-Ren Huang,
  Hansaem Kim, James Pustejovsky, Leo Wanner, Key-Sun Choi, Pum-Mo Ryu, Hsin-Hsi Chen,
  Lucia Donatelli, Heng Ji, Sadao Kurohashi, Patrizia Paggio, Nianwen Xue, Seokhwan Kim,
  Younggyun Hahm, Zhong He, Tony Kyungil Lee, Enrico Santus, Francis Bond, and Seung-Hoon
  Na (eds.), Proceedings of the 29th International Conference on Computational Linguistics, pp.
  5955–5965, Gyeongju, Republic of Korea, October 2022. International Committee on Computa-
  tional Linguistics. URL https://aclanthology.org/2022.coling-1.520.
Alec Radford, Jeff Wu, Rewon Child, David Luan, Dario Amodei, and Ilya Sutskever.
  Language models are unsupervised multitask learners. 2019. URL https://api.
  semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:160025533.
Rafael Rafailov, Archit Sharma, Eric Mitchell, Christopher D Manning, Stefano Ermon, and Chelsea
  Finn. Direct preference optimization: Your language model is secretly a reward model. In Thirty-
  seventh Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems, 2023. URL https://arxiv.
  org/abs/2305.18290.
Ricardo Rei, Craig Stewart, Ana C Farinha, and Alon Lavie. COMET: A neural framework for MT
  evaluation. In Bonnie Webber, Trevor Cohn, Yulan He, and Yang Liu (eds.), Proceedings of the
  2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pp. 2685–
  2702, Online, November 2020. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/
  2020.emnlp-main.213. URL https://aclanthology.org/2020.emnlp-main.213.
Ricardo Rei, José G. C. de Souza, Duarte Alves, Chrysoula Zerva, Ana C Farinha, Taisiya
  Glushkova, Alon Lavie, Luisa Coheur, and André F. T. Martins. COMET-22: Unbabel-IST
  2022 submission for the metrics shared task. In Philipp Koehn, Loı̈c Barrault, Ondřej Bo-
  jar, Fethi Bougares, Rajen Chatterjee, Marta R. Costa-jussà, Christian Federmann, Mark Fishel,
  Alexander Fraser, Markus Freitag, Yvette Graham, Roman Grundkiewicz, Paco Guzman, Barry
  Haddow, Matthias Huck, Antonio Jimeno Yepes, Tom Kocmi, André Martins, Makoto Mor-
  ishita, Christof Monz, Masaaki Nagata, Toshiaki Nakazawa, Matteo Negri, Aurélie Névéol,
  Mariana Neves, Martin Popel, Marco Turchi, and Marcos Zampieri (eds.), Proceedings of the
  Seventh Conference on Machine Translation (WMT), pp. 578–585, Abu Dhabi, United Arab
  Emirates (Hybrid), December 2022. Association for Computational Linguistics. URL https:
  //aclanthology.org/2022.wmt-1.52.
Stephane Ross and Drew Bagnell. Efficient reductions for imitation learning. In Yee Whye
  Teh and Mike Titterington (eds.), Proceedings of the Thirteenth International Conference on
  Artificial Intelligence and Statistics, volume 9 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research,
  pp. 661–668, Chia Laguna Resort, Sardinia, Italy, 13–15 May 2010. PMLR. URL https:
  //proceedings.mlr.press/v9/ross10a.html.
Stéphane Ross, Geoffrey Gordon, and Drew Bagnell. A reduction of imitation learning and struc-
   tured prediction to no-regret online learning. In Proceedings of the fourteenth international con-
   ference on artificial intelligence and statistics, pp. 627–635. JMLR Workshop and Conference
   Proceedings, 2011.
Victor Sanh, Lysandre Debut, Julien Chaumond, and Thomas Wolf. Distilbert, a distilled version
  of bert: smaller, faster, cheaper and lighter, 2020. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.
  01108.


                                                 16
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




Rohan Taori, Ishaan Gulrajani, Tianyi Zhang, Yann Dubois, Xuechen Li, Carlos Guestrin, Percy
  Liang, and Tatsunori B. Hashimoto. Stanford alpaca: An instruction-following llama model.
  https://github.com/tatsu-lab/stanford_alpaca, 2023.

Gemma Team, Thomas Mesnard, Cassidy Hardin, Robert Dadashi, Surya Bhupatiraju, Shreya
  Pathak, Laurent Sifre, Morgane Rivière, Mihir Sanjay Kale, Juliette Love, Pouya Tafti, Léonard
  Hussenot, Pier Giuseppe Sessa, Aakanksha Chowdhery, Adam Roberts, Aditya Barua, Alex
  Botev, Alex Castro-Ros, Ambrose Slone, Amélie Héliou, Andrea Tacchetti, Anna Bulanova, An-
  tonia Paterson, Beth Tsai, Bobak Shahriari, Charline Le Lan, Christopher A. Choquette-Choo,
  Clément Crepy, Daniel Cer, Daphne Ippolito, David Reid, Elena Buchatskaya, Eric Ni, Eric
  Noland, Geng Yan, George Tucker, George-Christian Muraru, Grigory Rozhdestvenskiy, Hen-
  ryk Michalewski, Ian Tenney, Ivan Grishchenko, Jacob Austin, James Keeling, Jane Labanowski,
  Jean-Baptiste Lespiau, Jeff Stanway, Jenny Brennan, Jeremy Chen, Johan Ferret, Justin Chiu,
  Justin Mao-Jones, Katherine Lee, Kathy Yu, Katie Millican, Lars Lowe Sjoesund, Lisa Lee,
  Lucas Dixon, Machel Reid, Maciej Mikuła, Mateo Wirth, Michael Sharman, Nikolai Chinaev,
  Nithum Thain, Olivier Bachem, Oscar Chang, Oscar Wahltinez, Paige Bailey, Paul Michel, Petko
  Yotov, Rahma Chaabouni, Ramona Comanescu, Reena Jana, Rohan Anil, Ross McIlroy, Ruibo
  Liu, Ryan Mullins, Samuel L Smith, Sebastian Borgeaud, Sertan Girgin, Sholto Douglas, Shree
  Pandya, Siamak Shakeri, Soham De, Ted Klimenko, Tom Hennigan, Vlad Feinberg, Wojciech
  Stokowiec, Yu hui Chen, Zafarali Ahmed, Zhitao Gong, Tris Warkentin, Ludovic Peran, Minh
  Giang, Clément Farabet, Oriol Vinyals, Jeff Dean, Koray Kavukcuoglu, Demis Hassabis, Zoubin
  Ghahramani, Douglas Eck, Joelle Barral, Fernando Pereira, Eli Collins, Armand Joulin, Noah
  Fiedel, Evan Senter, Alek Andreev, and Kathleen Kenealy. Gemma: Open models based on
  gemini research and technology, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.08295.

NLLB Team. No language left behind: Scaling human-centered machine translation. 2022.

Yizhong Wang, Yeganeh Kordi, Swaroop Mishra, Alisa Liu, Noah A. Smith, Daniel Khashabi, and
  Hannaneh Hajishirzi. Self-instruct: Aligning language models with self-generated instructions,
  2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2212.10560.

Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, Brian Ichter, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc
  Le, and Denny Zhou. Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models,
  2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.11903.

Wenda Xu, Danqing Wang, Liangming Pan, Zhenqiao Song, Markus Freitag, William Wang, and
 Lei Li. INSTRUCTSCORE: Towards explainable text generation evaluation with automatic feed-
 back. In Houda Bouamor, Juan Pino, and Kalika Bali (eds.), Proceedings of the 2023 Conference
 on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pp. 5967–5994, Singapore, December
 2023. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2023.emnlp-main.365. URL
 https://aclanthology.org/2023.emnlp-main.365.

An Yang, Baosong Yang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chang Zhou, Chengpeng Li,
  Chengyuan Li, Dayiheng Liu, Fei Huang, Guanting Dong, Haoran Wei, Huan Lin, Jialong Tang,
  Jialin Wang, Jian Yang, Jianhong Tu, Jianwei Zhang, Jianxin Ma, Jianxin Yang, Jin Xu, Jin-
  gren Zhou, Jinze Bai, Jinzheng He, Junyang Lin, Kai Dang, Keming Lu, Keqin Chen, Kexin
  Yang, Mei Li, Mingfeng Xue, Na Ni, Pei Zhang, Peng Wang, Ru Peng, Rui Men, Ruize Gao,
  Runji Lin, Shijie Wang, Shuai Bai, Sinan Tan, Tianhang Zhu, Tianhao Li, Tianyu Liu, Wen-
  bin Ge, Xiaodong Deng, Xiaohuan Zhou, Xingzhang Ren, Xinyu Zhang, Xipin Wei, Xuancheng
  Ren, Xuejing Liu, Yang Fan, Yang Yao, Yichang Zhang, Yu Wan, Yunfei Chu, Yuqiong Liu,
  Zeyu Cui, Zhenru Zhang, Zhifang Guo, and Zhihao Fan. Qwen2 technical report, 2024a. URL
  https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.10671.

Chuanpeng Yang, Wang Lu, Yao Zhu, Yidong Wang, Qian Chen, Chenlong Gao, Bingjie Yan, and
  Yiqiang Chen. Survey on knowledge distillation for large language models: Methods, evaluation,
  and application, 2024b. URL https://www.arxiv.org/abs/2407.01885.

Lifan Yuan, Ganqu Cui, Hanbin Wang, Ning Ding, Xingyao Wang, Jia Deng, Boji Shan, Huimin
  Chen, Ruobing Xie, Yankai Lin, Zhenghao Liu, Bowen Zhou, Hao Peng, Zhiyuan Liu, and
  Maosong Sun. Advancing llm reasoning generalists with preference trees, 2024.


                                               17
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




Yongchao Zhou, Kaifeng Lyu, Ankit Singh Rawat, Aditya Krishna Menon, Afshin Rostamizadeh,
  Sanjiv Kumar, Jean-François Kagy, and Rishabh Agarwal. Distillspec: Improving speculative
  decoding via knowledge distillation, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.08461.




                                               18
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




A                      D IVERGENCE M ETRICS .

As previously discussed, for each token position, the auto-regressive language model (LM) M can
generate a probability distribution, p(.|X, y<k ). Assuming the teacher and student models share the
same vocabulary V , we can directly employ divergence metrics, like KL divergence, to quantify the
distance between their respective probability distributions. For token position k, let P (C) and Q(C)
represent the vocabulary distributions of the teacher and student, respectively. The KL divergence at
                                              P                P (c)
this position is calculated as DKL (P ||Q) = c∈C P (c)(log Q(c)      ). By using this divergence metric
as our objective function, we can effectively conduct knowledge distillation between the teacher and
student models.


B                      C AN SKD OUTPERFORM BASELINES UNDER DIFFERENT K CHOICES ?

In this section, we tested a wide range of K values and showed SKD’s performance across three text
generation tasks. In Figure 6, we show that while extremely low or high K values can not yield the
most optimal performance, a broad range of K values between 5 to 50 can consistently outperform
supervised KD and on-policy KD across all three text generation tasks. The overall performance
trend confirms our hypothesis that as K increases, SKD degenerates to on-policy KD like behavior,
while decreasing K degenerates SKD to supervised KD like behavior. Consequently, neither the
highest nor lowest values of K are optimal.
We maintained a fixed K of 25 (a common choice for top-K sampling) in our primary experiments
to assess SKD’s general effectiveness without extensive parameter tuning. Our results in this section
suggest that further task-specific optimization of K could potentially yield even better performance.

                                  Translation (Am-to-En)                                               Summarization                                                        GSM8K
                                                                                                                                  Performance (Accuracy)
                                                            Performance (ROUGE-L)




                       75.5                                                         35.25
 Performance (COMET)




                                  SKD (K=25)                                                                                                                        SKD (K=25)
                       75.0                                                         35.00       SKD (K=25)                                                 28
                       74.5                                                         34.75                                                                  26           On-policy KD
                       74.0                                                         34.50
                                                                                                                                                           24
                       73.5           Supervised KD                                 34.25       Supervised KD On-policy KD                                           Supervised KD
                              5     10    15   25     50   75                               1      5      10   15   25       50                                 5      10        15    25   50
                                     Different K values                                            Different K values                                                 Different K values
Figure 6: We test a wide range of K values and show SKD’s performance across three text generation tasks. We
initialize student model with G EMMA -2 B - IT. We use SKD with K=25 (a common choice for top-k sampling)
for our experiments in prior sections. In this Figure, our results demonstrate that while extremely low or high
K values can not yield the most optimal performance, a broad range of K values between 5 and 50 consistently
outperforms supervised KD and on-policy KD across all three text generation tasks.



C                      A DAPTIVE K STUDY

We explored experiments by adjusting K during training steps (decreasing K). However, we didn’t
obtain positive signals (it didn’t beat constant K approach). Our hypothesis is that SKD assumes
that as the model improves, it naturally acts like on-policy KD. However, heuristically decreasing K
can force it to replace the token and behave like supervised KD, which introduces off-policy tokens,
hurting the performance of the model. However, we encourage future works to explore more into
this adaptive K direction.
We also conducted experiments using adaptive K strategy at decoding steps. Due to the autoregres-
sive nature of our base models, token generation becomes more deterministic with longer sequences.
This raises the question of whether reducing K as the sequence grows could further improve perfor-
mance. We experimented with a linear decay of K, decreasing it by for each additional generated
token. We set a minimum K to ensure our algorithm does not degenerate to supervised KD towards
the end of decoding. In Table 4, we showed that adaptive SKD outperforms most of KD baselines
across translation and summarization, it does not outperform constant SKD with K=25.


                                                                                                         19
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




Table 4: In this Table, we showed that performance under adaptive K. We initialized K with 50 and 25
respectively and K is reduced linearly with increasing decoding step. We also setup clipping K value so that
adaptive SKD pipeline will not degenerate to supervised KD at later decoding stage. Cliiping value is set to be
25 for k is initialized at 50 and 15 for k is initialized at 25. Although adaptive SKD outperforms most of KD
baselines across translation and summarization, it does not outperform constant SKD with K=25.

                      Translation (Measured by COMET)             Summarization (Measured by ROUGE-L)
                 K from 50 to 25    K from 25 to 15    K=25     K from 50 to 25    K from 25 to 15    K=25
  Performance          75.1               75.0          75.3          25.2               28.7          29.1



We also encourage future work to study Top-P criteria (Holtzman et al., 2020) for SKD pipeline.
We believe that combing Top-P and Top-K criteria can lead to better performance of SKD pipeline.

D     T RAINING AND H YPERPARAMETER D ETAILS FOR BASELINES AND SKD
For both G EMMA -2B- IT and Q WEN 2-0.5B- IT models, we set the learning rate to 1e-5. We disabled
dropout during sampling, as in direct preference learning (Rafailov et al., 2023). Maximum input
and output lengths were set task-specifically: (256, 256, 1024, 1024) and (256, 512, 128, 1024) for
translation, arithmetic reasoning, summarization, and math instruction, respectively. All baseline
models used a batch size of 8 and a gradient accumulation step of 1. Student model is trained
over 375, 375, 375 and 1225 training steps for summarization, GSM, math and translation tasks
respectively. We train 7500 steps for full data training at Math. For extreme low data setting (with
prompt size 100), we trained student model over 125 steps for summarization, GSM and translation
tasks. We report checkpoint results with the lowest validation loss.
Initial experiments with top-p sampling (temperature=1, top-p=1) led to significantly degraded gen-
eration quality compared to greedy decoding (temperature=0). This was particularly evident in math
instruction task, where accuracy halved. To balance exploration and performance, we gradually re-
duced temperature and top-p until top-p sampling matched or outperformed greedy decoding. We
ultimately settled on temperature=0.5 and top-p=0.5. This setting effectively limits the answer space
while allowing for sufficient exploration. To ensure fair comparison, we kept the student temperature
and top-p parameters identical for on-policy KD and SKD.
Two additional hyperparameters, teacher model top-p and temperature, can influence SKD’s per-
formance. When a student token is rejected by the teacher, these parameters affect the resampled
teacher token. Similar to prior work (Agarwal et al., 2024), we found that lower teacher temperatures
improve distillation. We conducted a grid search over top-p {0.5, 1} and temperature {0.2, 0.3, 0.4}
for translation, arithmetic reasoning, and summarization on respective validation sets. While the
optimal temperature varied slightly across tasks, 0.2 generally performed well. Although a full vo-
cabulary distribution (top-p=1) typically yielded the best results, reducing top-p to 0.5 improved
ROUGE-L from 0.5 to 0.9 across different temperatures at Summarization task. Therefore, we
set temperature to 0.2 for all tasks and top-p to 0.5 for summarization and 1 for other tasks. All
hyperparameter settings are consistent between G EMMA -2B and Q WEN 2-0.5B- IT model.
In Section B, we explore a wide range of K values and test SKD’s performance across three text
generation tasks. Our results demonstrate that a wide range of K values can outperform baseline
knowledge distillation methods, such as On-policy KD and Supervised KD. To ensure consistent
evaluation, we selected a constant K value of 25 (a common choice for Top-K sampling) for all tasks
and ablation studies. However, future research could explore more dynamic K selection strategies
to potentially further enhance SKD performance.




                                                      20
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




Table 5: In this Table, we show performance of G EMMA -2B- IT (student), supervised FT G EMMA -2B- IT (stu-
dent) and supervised FT G EMMA -7B- IT (teacher) at both task specific distillation and task agnostic distillation.

                                           Task specific distillation                  Task agnostic distillation
                                         MT         Summ         GSM8K         Math     GSMplus         SVAMP       ASDiv
        Baselines                       COMET     ROUGE-L          Acc         Acc           Acc            Acc      Acc
        G EMMA -2B- IT                   44.5        11.7           0          0.68           0.5            1.6    1.8
        Supervised FT G EMMA -2B- IT     72.5        31.7          18.7        4.82          4.70           12.8    15.2
        Supervised FT G EMMA -7B- IT     79.2        36.8          60.0        19.5          40.5           66.6    76.1




Table 6: In this Table, we show performance of Q WEN -0.5B- IT (student), supervised FT Q WEN -0.5B- IT (stu-
dent) and supervised FT Q WEN -7B- IT (teacher) at both task specific distillation and task agnostic distillation.

                                           Task specific distillation                  Task agnostic distillation
                                         MT         Summ         GSM8K         Math     GSMplus         SVAMP       ASDiv
        Baselines                       COMET     ROUGE-L          Acc         Acc           Acc            Acc      Acc
        Qwen-0.5B-it                     44.9        15.2           0          7.0           3.9             1.7    3.9
        Supervised FT Q WEN -0.5B- IT    57.6        29.2          31.8        2.6           3.9            10.5    14.1
        Supervised FT Q WEN -7B- IT      79.4        38.1          73.8        46.0          60.4           84.8    90.0




Table 7: This table presents baseline and SKD performance across four held-out test sets. The teacher model
is a supervised FT G EMMA -7B, while the student model is an instruction-tuned G EMMA -2B. The left side of
the table shows results for all baselines and SKD using 1,000 prompts from our constructed training set. The
right side displays results using 10,000 prompts.

                    KD initiates with G EMMA -2B- IT (1k prompts)       KD initiates with G EMMA -2B- IT (10k prompts)
                    Math    GSMplus     SVAMP          ASDiv            Math    GSMplus             SVAMP          ASDiv
    Baselines        Acc       Acc       Acc             Acc            Acc           Acc            Acc            Acc
    SFT              4.82     4.70       12.8           15.2            10.9          16.8           42.3           56.8
    Supervised KD    7.92     12.1       42.7           53.4            10.7          16.1           46.7           63.3
    On-policy KD     7.92     15.1       44.5           57.4            10.3          18.6           49.9           61.8
    SKD              9.56     16.9       46.9           59.1            10.2          19.7           50.4           68.4




E      A DDITIONAL RESULTS

Tables 5 and 6 show the performance of G EMMA -2B- IT (student), Q WEN -0.5B- IT (students) and
supervised FT teacher models (G EMMA -7B- IT and Q WEN -7B- IT) under task-specific and task-
agnostic distillation. Table 7 presents task-agnostic instruction tuning results for baseline and SKD
models across four held-out test sets, using both low-data (1k prompts) and full-data (10k prompts)
training regimes. These results align with those shown in Figure 3.



F     TASK INPUT AND OUTPUT F ORMAT

We include input and output formats for four text generation tasks that we studied in this paper:
math instruction following (Table 8), arithmetic reasoning (Table 9), dialogue summarization (Table
10) and translation (Table 11).


                                                            21
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




 Prompt for model:

 Solve the following math problem step-by-step.
 Simplify your answer as much as possible. Present your final answerPas boxed {Your Answer}.
 For a positive integer n, let Hn = 1 + 12 + 13 + · · · + n1 Compute ∞          1
                                                                     n=1 (n+1)Hn Hn+1 .


 Output for model:

 Step 1: First, let’s understand what the problem is asking for. We are given the expression Hn = 1 + 12 + 13 + · · · + n1
 for a positive integer n, and we need to compute the sum ∞               1
                                                            P
                                                               n=1 (n+1)Hn Hn+1 .


 Step 2: To begin solving this problem, we can start by manipulating (n+1)H1n Hn+1 to see if we can simplify it in any
                                                       Hn+1 −Hn
 way. By doing this, we can rewrite (n+1)H1n Hn+1 as   Hn Hn+1
                                                                .

 Step 3: This allows us to express the given sum as a telescoping series, where each term of the sum cancels out most of
 the preceding and following terms.

 Step 4: Taking the sum ∞                1
                           P
                              n=1 (n+1)Hn Hn+1 in parts, we can break it down term by term to simplify the expression
 and find the pattern of the telescoping series.

 Step 5: By expressing each term of the sum as a difference involving the harmonic numbers Hn , we can observe how
 the terms cancel out, and this leads us to the result of the sum.

 Step 6: To validate and confirm the result, we need to acknowledge the fact that Hn → ∞ as n → ∞, and we can
 prove this by showing that the sum of the harmonic series diverges.

 Step 7: This proof involves demonstrating that the sum of the harmonic series increases without bound as n increases,
 which verifies the behavior of Hn as n → ∞.

 Step 8: Therefore, the final answer to the given problem is 1 , and it is backed by the property of harmonic numbers
 tending to infinity as the terms increase.

 Answer:

  1


Table 8: This outlines the input and output format for math instruction following task. The output includes
chain-of-thought steps leading to the computed answer, which is presented in a boxed format. We evaluate
these answers by comparing their numerical equivalence to the ground truth.




                                                      22
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




 Prompt for model:

 Q: American carmakers produce 5 650 000 cars each year. Then they distribute it to 5 car suppliers. The first supplier
 receives 1 000 000 cars each. The second supplier receives 500 000 cars more while the third car supplier receives the
 same number as the first and second suppliers combined. The fourth and the fifth supplier receive an equal number of
 cars. How many cars do the fourth and fourth suppliers each receive?

 Output for model:

 The second supplier receives 1 000 000 + 500 000 = 1 500 000 cars.

 The third supplier receives 1 000 000 + 1 500 000 = 2 500 000 cars.

 So the first to third suppliers receive a total of 1 000 000 + 1 500 000 + 2 500 000 = 5 000 000 cars.

 Thus, 5 650 000 - 5 000 000 = 650 000 cars are left to be divided by the two other suppliers.

 Therefore, the fourth and fifth suppliers receive 650 000/2 = 325 000 cars each.

 #### 325,000


Table 9: This outlines the input and output format for arithmetic reasoning task. The output includes chain-of-
thought steps leading to the computed answer, which is presented after ”####”. We evaluate these answers by
comparing their numerical equivalence to the ground truth.



 Prompt for model:

 #Person1#: Hi, Mr. Smith. I’m Doctor Hawkins. Why are you here today?

 #Person2#: I found it would be a good idea to get a check-up.

 #Person1#: Yes, well, you haven’t had one for 5 years. You should have one every year.

 #Person2#: I know. I figure as long as there is nothing wrong, why go see the doctor?

 #Person1#: Well, the best way to avoid serious illnesses is to find out about them early. So try to come at least once a
 year for your own good.

 #Person2#: Ok.

 #Person1#: Let me see here. Your eyes and ears look fine. Take a deep breath, please. Do you smoke, Mr. Smith?

 #Person2#: Yes.

 #Person1#: Smoking is the leading cause of lung cancer and heart disease, you know. You really should quit.

 #Person2#: I’ve tried hundreds of times, but I just can’t seem to kick the habit.

 #Person1#: Well, we have classes and some medications that might help. I’ll give you more information before you
 leave.

 #Person2#: Ok, thanks doctor.

 Output for model:

 Mr. Smith’s getting a check-up, and Doctor Hawkins advises him to have one every year. Hawkins’ll give some
 information about their classes and medications to help Mr. Smith quit smoking.


Table 10: This outlines the input and output format for dialogue summarization task. The output is the summary
of above dialogue. We evaluate summary by computing its ROUGE-L score to the ground truth.


                                                      23
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




 Prompt for model:

 Translate Assamese sentence into English. This is the Assamese sentence: [Assamese Texts]. Here is the English
 translation:

 Output for model:

 It was to last for the next 40 years and would be fought for real, by proxy armies, on battlefields from Africa to Asia, in
 Afghanistan, Cuba and many other places.


Table 11: This outlines the input and output format for translation task. The output is the English translation.
We evaluate translation by computing its COMET score to the reference and source.




G     E VALUATION M ETRICS

As in (Freitag et al., 2022), we adopted the learned evaluation metric COMET (Rei et al., 2020)
for assessing our translation outputs, instead of the n-gram-based BLEU (Papineni et al., 2002).
Specifically, we used the comet-da-22 checkpoint (Rei et al., 2022), a widely recognized metric that
exhibits strong correlation with human judgments at WMT22 (Freitag et al., 2022). COMET is a
learned metric trained on a large-scale dataset of human judgments for evaluating translation quality.
It takes source, translation, and reference as input, producing a quality score between 0 and 1. A
COMET score improvement of 0.5 to 1.0 indicates a substantial improvement.
Tables 8 and 9 illustrate the structured output format used to derive final answers from math instruc-
tion tasks and GSM-8k. We employed the evaluation code from (Yuan et al., 2024) to assess the
mathematical equivalence of parsed answers and ground truths. This involved converting mathe-
matical symbols like π into their numerical values for more accurate numerical comparisons, rather
than relying solely on string matching. Implementation details can be found in the original paper
(Yuan et al., 2024). We reported accuracy for both tasks.
We evaluated summarization output against references using ROUGE-L (Lin, 2004). ROUGE-L
ranges from 0 to 100, with a 1-point increase indicating substantial improvement.


 Prompt for model:

 Translate Assamese sentence into English. This is the Assamese sentence: [Assamese Texts]. Here is the English
 translation:

 Reference translation:

 Italian is also the everyday language used by most of those who work in the state while Latin is often used in religious
 ceremonies.

 On-policy student sampled output (COMET: 53):

 The Estonian language is also used in the Estonian-speaking countries as a national language, and is used in the
 Estonian-speaking countries as a medium of instruction in the Estonian-speaking countries.

 SKD student sampled output (COMET: 80):

 The Latin language is still used in the country to a large extent, though it is not the official language.


Table 12: We sample training data from SKD and on-policy methods. Our results show that solely sampling
from the student model can lead to hallucinated translations and limited training signals (On-policy output).
Conversely, SKD generates fluent, semantically similar outputs while staying close to the student’s distribution
(SKD output). Student model is supervised FT Q WEN -0.5B.


                                                        24
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




H    C ASE S TUDY BETWEEN O N - POLICY AND SKD SAMPLES
Tables 12 and 13 illustrate low-quality training examples generated by on-policy models. In Table
12, the student model hallucinates ”Estonian language,” a nonexistent term in the source, leading
to a poor translation. SKD with teacher’s interleaved sampling avoids this issue. In Table 13,
on-policy KD samples repeat the n-gram ”in the past,” producing nonsensical translations. SKD’s
interleaved sampling helps prevent this pathology. In Table 14, we sampled training data from SKD
and on-policy methods using the G EMMA -2B- IT model. These samples were collected during the
early stages of training. The on-policy sample exhibited repetitive outputs and errors in arithmetic
calculations. While our SKD model also produced incorrect answers, incorporating teacher’s cor-
rections enabled it to perform some intermediate steps correctly and maintain accurate arithmetic
calculations. In Table 15, we sampled training data from SKD and on-policy methods using the
Gemma-2B-it model. These samples were collected during the late stages of training. We observed
that teacher model can perform some intermediate correction on the reasoning step, ultimately lead-
ing to correct answer.

 Prompt for model:

 Translate Assamese sentence into English. This is the Assamese sentence: [Assamese Texts]. Here is the English
 translation:

 Reference translation:

 It was to last for the next 40 years and would be fought for real, by proxy armies, on battlefields from Africa to Asia, in
 Afghanistan, Cuba and many other places.

 On-policy student sampled output (COMET: 36):

 This has been a long war, and has been fought in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in
 the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the
 past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past,
 in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in
 the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the
 past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past,
 in the past, in the past, in the past, in

 SKD student sampled output (COMET: 72):

 This has been going on for 40 years and is still ongoing, with the possibility of war, a civil war, Afghans in the Balkans,
 Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia, and possibly even the United States.


Table 13: We sample training data from SKD and on-policy methods. Our results show that solely sampling
from the student model can lead to poor translations and limited training signals (On-policy output). Con-
versely, SKD generates fluent, semantically similar outputs while staying close to the student’s distribution
(SKD output). We omit source sentence due to font format issues. Student model is supervised FT Q WEN -
0.5B.




                                                            25
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




 Prompt for model:

 Q: Libby is building an igloo in her backyard using bricks of snow. She builds her igloo in rows, using a total of 10
 rows of bricks of snow. The bottom half of the igloo has 12 bricks of snow in each row while the top half of the igloo
 has 8 bricks of snow in each row. How many bricks of snow did Libby use for her igloo? A:
 Correct Answer:

 In the bottom half of the igloo, there are 10 rows / 2 = 5 rows of bricks of snow.

 So in the bottom half of the igloo, there are 5 rows * 12 bricks of snow in each row = 60 bricks of snow.

 In the top half of the igloo, there are 5 rows * 8 bricks of snow in each row = 5*8=4040 bricks of snow.

 There is therefore a total of 60 + 40 = 100 bricks of snow in the igloo. #### 100

 On-policy student sampled output:

 $35-$160= $125
 Libby has $160-$125=$35
 Libby has 160-35= $125
 Libby has 160-35= $125...

 SKD student sampled output:

 The bottom half of the igloo has 12 x 10 = 120 bricks of snow.

 The top half of the igloo has 8 x 10 = 80 bricks of snow.

 Libby used 120 + 80=200 bricks of snow. #### 200


Table 14: We sample training data from SKD and on-policy methods using the G EMMA -2B- IT model. These
samples are collected during the early stages of training. The on-policy sample exhibit repetitive outputs and er-
rors in arithmetic calculations. While our SKD model also produces incorrect answers, incorporating teacher’s
corrections enables it to perform some intermediate steps correctly and maintain accurate arithmetic calcula-
tions.



 Prompt for model:

 Q: John Smith buys 3 cakes for $12 each and splits the cost with his brother. How much did he pay? A:
 Correct Answer:

 He spent 3*12=36 total So he paid 36/2=18 #### 18

 On-policy student sampled output:

 Each brother pays $12/3 = 4 each

 So he pays $12 - $4 = 8 #### 8

 SKD student sampled output:

 The 3 cakes cost John 3 x $12 = $36

 So he paid $36 / 2 = $18 each #### 18


Table 15: We sample training data from SKD and on-policy methods using the G EMMA -2B- IT MODEL. These
samples are collected during the late stages of training. We observe that teacher model can perform some
intermediate correction on the reasoning step, ultimately leading to correct answer.




                                                       26
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




I   OVER - FITTING AT SFT STAGE CAN CAUSE SUB - OPTIMAL PERFORMANCE
    AT POST- TRAINING KD S

Figure 7 demonstrates that overfitting during the SFT stage can hinder optimal performance in post-
training KD. End-to-end KD methods, such as SKD, which can train from arbitrary base model
and bypass the SFT stage, offer significant benefits. To investigate this, we selected three check-
points from the supervised FT stage of the student model, corresponding to training steps 64, 128,
and 192. Based on validation, the checkpoint at step 128 represents the converged model, while
step 192 exhibits signs of overfitting (Figure a). Figure (b) shows that the converged checkpoint
(step 128) outperforms the overfitted checkpoint (step 192). Moreover, we found that training from
an earlier checkpoint (step 64) can yield better results than the overfitted checkpoint (step 192).
This observation is consistent for both on-policy and SKD. However, SKD is an end-to-end train-
ing pipeline. Our findings confirm that overfitting during the SFT stage can lead to suboptimal
performance in post-training KD. As shown in Section 5.4, training with extremely limited data
can inevitably lead to overfitting during the SFT stage, further highlighting the superiority of our
end-to-end SKD pipeline compared to two-stage KD approaches like on-policy KD.

                                     Vali Loss         Train Loss                                               On-policy KD         SKD
                                          SFT training at GSM8k                                                     KD training at GSM8k

                                                                               Performance (Accuracy)
                               1.5
          Cross entropy loss




                                                                                                        29.0

                               1.0                                                                      28.5
                                                                                                        28.0
                               0.5                                                                      27.5

                                     16          64    128          192                                        64              128         192
                                             Training steps                                                     Initiated SFT checkpoints
                                                 (a)                                                                    (b)

Figure 7: In this Figure, we demonstrate that over-fitting during the SFT stage can hinder optimal performance
in post-training knowledge distillation. End-to-end KD methods, such as SKD, which can train directly
from arbitrary base model and bypass the SFT stage, offer significant benefits. Figure (a) presents three
checkpoints from the SFT stage, corresponding to training steps 64, 128, and 192. Based on validation loss, the
checkpoint at step 128 represents the converged model, while step 192 shows signs of overfitting. Figure (b)
demonstrates that the converged checkpoint (step 128) outperforms the overfitted checkpoint (step 192). This
finding is consistent for both on-policy KD and SKD.



J   T RAINING DETAILS OF MIXED TRAINING OF SUPERVISED KD AND
    ON - POLICY KD

The parameter setting for this baseline is identical for the setup in Appendix D. We start to train
student model with supervised KD samples for 188 steps (roughly 1.5 epoches), then we perform
on-policy KD for another 187 steps. Total training step is 375. Initial learning rate is 1e-5 and linear
decay is applied during training process.


K     SPEEDUP TO SPECULATIVE DECODING

Motivated by (Zhou et al., 2024), we further investigate the speedup achieved by each baseline
model when used as a draft model to approximate a teacher model during speculative decoding
(Leviathan et al., 2022)]. As depicted in Figure 8, SKD-trained student models consistently exhibit
the highest speedup and token acceptance ratio (Approximation model will accept or reject tokens
depending on whether draft token is sampled under its probability distribution) across translation and
summarization tasks. These models accelerate instruction-tuned G EMMA -2B by 1.21x and 1.17x in
translation and summarization, respectively, while also improving token acceptance ratio by 1.71x


                                                                          27
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




and 1.85x. These results demonstrate that SKD not only produces superior performance but also
generates the closest distribution to the teacher model. This opens up a new application: utilizing
SKD to train powerful draft models and accelerate the speculative decoding process.

                                                                                SFT            Supervised KD                                     On-policy KD            SKD
                        Translation (Am-to-En)                                     Summarization                                                 Translation (Am-to-En)                                             Summarization
                  600 SKD speeds up 1.21X over IT                              SKD speeds up 1.17X over IT                                   62 SKD gets accepted 1.71X than IT                                 SKD gets accepted 1.85X than IT




                                                                                                                    Token Acceptance Ratio




                                                                                                                                                                                  Token Acceptance Ratio
                                                                         520
                                                                                                                                             60                                                            80
Speed (Token/s)




                                                       Speed (Token/s)
                  580                                                                                                                        58
                                                                         500                                                                                                                               70
                                                                                                                                             56
                  560
                                                                         480                                                                 54                                                            60
                  540                                                                                                                        52
                                                                         460                                                                 50                                                            50
                               Gemma-2B                                                Gemma-2B                                                         Gemma-2B                                                        Gemma-2B
Figure 8: We utilize student models trained with various baseline KD methods as draft models and a supervised
fine-tuned G EMMA -7B- IT model as the approximation model for speculative decoding. Our results demon-
strate that SKD-trained student models significantly outperform the others, achieving the highest speedup and
token acceptance ratio. SKD accelerates G EMMA -2B- IT by 1.21x and 1.17x in translation and summarization,
respectively, while also improving token acceptance ratio by 1.71x and 1.85x.


L                    R EJECTION R ATE A NALYSIS

We calculate the rejection rate of the teacher model across different student initializations and train-
ing steps. The rejection rate is defined as the total number of tokens re-sampled by the teacher
divided by the total number of tokens generated by both the teacher and student. After 1,225 train-
ing steps, the rejection rate decreases to 5.4% for the instruction-tuned Gemma-2B and 0.1% for the
supervised fine-tuned (SFT) Gemma-2B, respectively.
We randomly select 100 samples from the Assamese-to-English training dataset. Figure 9 illustrates
the estimated rejection rates of the teacher model (Supervised Fine-Tuned Gemma-7B) with two
student models: Gemma-2B-IT and Gemma-2B-SFT. For Gemma-2B-IT (left panel), the rejection
rate starts high, with 40.9% of tokens requiring teacher resampling during sequence generation. This
rate drops sharply within the first 150 training steps, from 40.9% to 9.7%, and continues to decline
gradually as training progresses. This trend supports our hypothesis that, in early training stages,
SKD behaves more like supervised knowledge distillation (with 40.9% of tokens replaced by the
teacher). As training advances, SKD transitions to a more on-policy approach, with only 5% of
tokens replaced by the teacher.
In the right panel of Figure 9, we evaluate the rejection rate with the SFTed Gemma-2B student
model. The initial rejection rate is significantly lower (4.7%), reflecting the student model’s stronger
initialization and closer proximity to the teacher. The rejection rate continues to decrease as training
progresses, maintaining a consistent downward trend. Despite the lower initial rejection rate and the
more on-policy behavior of SKD with the SFTed student model, we demonstrate SKD’s superior
performance in Table 2.

                              SFTed Gemma-7B to Gemma-2B-it (Trans)                                                                                     SFTed Gemma-7B to Gemma-2B-sft (Trans)
                  0.4
                                                                                                                               0.04
Rejection Rate




                                                                                                             Rejection Rate




                  0.3
                                                                                                                               0.03
                  0.2                                                                                                          0.02
                  0.1                                                                                                          0.01
                          0         50        100              150               200        250        300                                          0         50        100            150                        200        250         300
                                                    Training steps                                                                                                         Training steps
Figure 9: We compute the rejection rate of the teacher model under different student initializations with various
training steps at Assamese to English translation task. We estimated rejection rates of teacher model supervised
FT Gemma-7B with student models gemma-2b-it and gemma-2b-sft, respectively. We found that the rejection
rate has a sharp decrease in the first 150 iterations. Student model with higher quality initialization (SFTed)
can achieve much lower rejection rate.


                                                                                                             28
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




M                  C OMPUTATIONAL A NALYSIS

An important consideration in SKD is the computational cost associated with on-policy sampling.
Using the estimated rejection rates as a reference, we can analyze the computational costs of this ap-
proach. By leveraging the isoFLOP cost calculation introduced in (Kaplan et al., 2020), we estimate
the inference cost of our models using Equation 2:

                                                                       √
                                                Computation = 2N D + 2N D ∗ L                                                                                (2)

where N is the number of parameters. D is the number of input tokens and L is the number of
decoding steps.
Based on our rejection rate analysis, we compute the expected rejection rate for Gemma-2B-IT
during training. For simplicity, we assume an expected rejection rate of 10% (slightly higher than
the actual rate during training but convenient for analysis), corresponding to an expected acceptance
rate of 90%. We estimate the expected number of generated tokens using a simplified version of
Algorithm 1 shows a simplified algorithm where γ = 1. In practice, we use γ = 5.
Using a geometric series approach similar to (Leviathan et al., 2022), we estimate the expected
number of student-generated tokens with Equation 3:


                                                                                                      1 − αγ+1
                                           E(# student generated tokens) =                                                                                   (3)
                                                                                                        1−α

where α is the expected acceptance ratio and γ is the sequence length generated by the student model
per run. With an expected acceptance ratio of 0.9, the expected number of student-generated tokens
per run is (1 − 0.95 )/(1 − 0.9) = 4.1. For simplicity, we round this to 4. For 5 student-proposed
tokens, the teacher evaluates all tokens in parallel and typically rejects the last one. Thus, we can
approximate that in SKD, the student generates 80% of the tokens, while the teacher generates the
remaining 20%.
To quantify this in terms of inference cost, we assume Nstudent =2B, Nteacher =7B, D=256, L=200.
If the ground truth is unavailable and must be sampled from the teacher, supervised KD is roughly
3.5x higher than on-policy KD, while the sampling cost of SKD is approximately 1.72x higher
than on-policy KD. SKD can thus save approximately 50% of the computational cost compared to
directly sampling from the teacher. This calculation is based on an instruction-tuned student model;
using an SFTed student model would yield additional computational savings. This example provides
a high-level overview of the computational requirements for SKD sampling.


N                 VALIDATION C ONVERGENCE ACROSS METHODS


                                                      Supervised KD                   On-policy KD        SKD
                       KD training at Summarization                            KD training at GSM8k                             KD training at Translation
                0.60
                                                                      0.4                                                2.0
Validation KL




                                                      Validation KL




                                                                                                         Validation KL




                0.55
                0.50                                                  0.3                                                1.5
                0.45
                                                                      0.2                                                1.0
                0.40
                       50 100 150 200 250 300 350                           50 100 150 200 250 300 350                         50 100 150 200 250 300 350
                              Training steps                                      Training steps                                     Training steps
Figure 10: In this Figure, we report the validation loss of various baseline KD strategies across 350 training
steps, distilling Gemma-7B to Gemma-2B-it model. Our findings demonstrate that SKD consistently achieves
the lowest validation loss by the final iteration across all three tasks.


                                                                                    29
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




                                                          Supervised KD                On-policy KD            SKD
                       KD training at Summarization                             KD training at GSM8k                              KD training at Translation
                                                                                                                          1.00
Validation KL                                                         0.21




                                                      Validation KL




                                                                                                          Validation KL
                0.50                                                                                                      0.95
                                                                      0.20
                                                                                                                          0.90
                0.45                                                  0.19
                                                                                                                          0.85
                0.40                                                  0.18
                                                                                                                          0.80
                       50 100 150 200 250 300 350                            50 100 150 200 250 300 350                          50 100 150 200 250 300 350
                              Training steps                                       Training steps                                      Training steps
Figure 11: We report the validation loss of various baseline KD strategies across 350 training steps, distilling
Gemma-7B to SFTed Gemma-2B model. Our findings demonstrate that SKD consistently achieves the lowest
validation loss by the final iteration across all three tasks.


In Figure 10, we present the validation loss of various baseline KD strategies over 350 training steps,
where Gemma-7B is distilled into the Gemma-2B-IT model. Our results show that SKD consistently
achieves the lowest validation loss by the final iteration across all three tasks. A key observation is
that the lower quality of on-policy samples can lead to slower initial convergence. This is evident
at step 50, where on-policy KD exhibits higher validation losses compared to both supervised KD
and SKD across all tasks. In translation tasks, student models trained with on-policy KD continue to
show higher validation losses than those trained with SKD or supervised KD, reflecting the inferior
quality of on-policy samples, as indicated by the lower COMET scores in Table ??. For simpler
tasks, such as translation and summarization, supervised KD achieves lower initial validation losses
compared to SKD and on-policy KD. However, SKD rapidly improves in later iterations, ultimately
achieving the lowest validation loss by the end of training, while supervised KD risks overfitting, as
shown in the rightmost panel of Figure 10. For more complex tasks, such as the GSM task, SKD’s
interleaved sampling method enables faster convergence and consistently lower validation losses
throughout training, outperforming both on-policy and supervised KD.
In Figure 11, we report the validation loss of baseline KD strategies over 350 training steps, distilling
Gemma-7B into the SFTed Gemma-2B model. SKD consistently achieves the lowest validation loss
by the final iteration across all three tasks. Additionally, we observe that as the base quality of
the student model improves, on-policy KD achieves lower validation losses compared to supervised
KD by the end of training. This suggests that on-policy approaches benefit from improved sample
quality. Most importantly, SKD achieves the best convergence within 350 training steps for both
model initializations, outperforming both supervised KD and on-policy KD.
The training process remains stable across on-policy KD, supervised KD, and SKD, as the KL loss
provides a stable training objective. The primary difference between these approaches lies in the
effectiveness of the samples for learning, as measured by their ability to minimize validation loss.
Through a comparative analysis of validation losses for both instruction-tuned (IT) and supervised
fine-tuned (SFT) student model initializations, we demonstrate that SKD achieves superior conver-
gence, consistently attaining the lowest validation loss compared to baseline methods.


O                 Q UANTIFY SAMPLE OOD ISSUES WITH DIFFERENT KD APPROACHES

To quantify the out-of-distribution (OOD) issues in the samples, we computed the per-sample per-
plexity (PPL) using both the teacher model (supervised fine-tuned Gemma-7B) and the student
model (instruction-tuned Gemma-2B). Our analysis included ground truth data, on-policy samples
generated by the student, and samples produced by SKD. We randomly selected 100 prompts from
the translation training dataset for student and SKD sampling, while for supervised KD, we used
ground truth outputs.
As shown in Table 16, the teacher model assigned a significantly higher PPL to student-proposed
samples 46.8, compared to ground truth samples 1.57, indicating a substantial divergence between
the student’s proposals and the teacher’s distribution. In contrast, SKD-generated samples achieved
a much lower PPL of 10.8, suggesting that the teacher model can more accurately evaluate the
quality of SKD samples compared to those proposed by the student.


                                                                                     30
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025




Table 16: In this Table, we quantify sample out-of-distribution (OOD) issues by estimating the per-sample per-
plexity (PPL), using both the teacher (supervised FT Gemma-7B) and the student (instruction-tuned Gemma-
2B). Our analysis included ground truth data (supervised KD), on-policy samples proposed by the student, and
samples generated by SKD’s interleaved sampling. Our finding demonstrates that both student proposed sam-
ples and ground truth are OOD to teacher and student model respectively. With large drops at PPL value, we
demonstrate that SKD’s interleaved sampling can mitigate sample OOD issues and lead to more effective KD
process.

               PPL from SFTed Gemma-7B (Teacher)               PPL from Gemma-2B-it (Student)
               On-policy     SKD        Supervised KD        On-policy      SKD      Supervised KD
       PPL        46.8        10.8            1.57               44.0       358          5606.3


Table 16 further reveals that ground truth samples exhibit a high PPL of 5606.3 under the student
model, confirming their off-policy nature. Importantly, our SKD approach, which combines on-
policy token proposals with teacher corrections, significantly reduces the PPL to 358 compared
to ground truth samples. This demonstrates that SKD samples are better aligned with the student
model’s distribution, enabling more effective on-policy learning.




                                                     31
